  (a) T4Assignment of Temporary RatingsK.–(1) For the purpose of providing disability compensation under this chapter to veterans, the Secretary shall assign a temporary disability rating to a veteran as follows:
    (A) To a veteran who–
      (i) was discharged or released from active duty not more than 365 days before the date such veteran submits a claim for disability compensation under this chapter;
      (ii) has one or more disabilities for which a rating of total is not immediately assignable–
        (I) under the regular provisions of the schedule of ratings; or
        (II) on the basis of individual unemployability; and
      (iii) has one or more–
        (I) severe disabilities that result in substantially gainful employment not being feasible or advisable; or
        (II) healed, unhealed, or incompletely healed wounds or injuries that make material impairment of employability likely.
    (B) To a veteran who, as a result of a highly stressful in-service event, has a mental disorder that is severe enough to bring about the veteran“s discharge or release from active duty.
    (C) To a veteran who has a service-connected disability that requires hospital treatment or observation in a Department of Veterans Affairs or approved hospital for a period in excess of 21 days.
    (D) To a veteran who has a service-connected disability that has required convalescent care or treatment at hospital discharge (regular discharge or release to non-bed care) or outpatient release that meets the requirements of regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
  (2) With respect to a veteran described in paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary may assign a temporary disability rating to such veteran regardless of whether such veteran has obtained a medical examination or a medical opinion concerning such veteran“s disability.
  (3) With respect to a veteran described in paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall schedule a medical examination for such veteran not later than six months after the separation or discharge of such veteran from active duty.
  (b) T4Termination of Temporary Disability RatingsK.–(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a temporary disability rating assigned to a veteran under this section shall remain in effect as follows:
    (A) For a veteran who is assigned a temporary disability rating under subsection (a)(1)(A), until the later of the date that is–
      (i) 12 months after the date of discharge or release from active duty; or
      (ii) provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
    (B) For a veteran who is assigned a temporary disability rating under subsection (a)(1)(B), until the date on which a rating decision is issued to such veteran following the medical examination scheduled under subsection (a)(3).
    (C) For a veteran who is assigned a temporary disability rating under subsection (a)(1)(C), until the later of the date that is–
      (i) the last day of the month in which the veteran is discharged from the hospital as described in such subsection (a)(1)(C); or
      (ii) provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
    (D) For a veteran who is assigned a temporary disability rating under subsection (a)(1)(D), until the date that is provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
  (2) The Secretary may extend a temporary disability rating assigned to a veteran under subsection (a) beyond the applicable termination date under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that such an extension is appropriate.
  (c) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of this section.
  (d) T4ConstructionK.–Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from providing a temporary disability rating under an authority other than this section.
