  (a) There is in the Treasury a fund to be known as the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Care Collections Fund.
  (b) Amounts recovered or collected after June 30, 1997, under any of the following provisions of law shall be deposited in the fund:
    (1) Section 1710(f) of this title.
    (2) Section 1710(g) of this title.
    (3) Section 1711 of this title.
    (4) Section 1722A of this title.
    (5) Section 1729 of this title.
    (6) Public Law 87–693, popularly known as the ””Federal Medical Care Recovery Act““ (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), to the extent that a recovery or collection under that law is based on medical care or services furnished under this chapter.
  (c)    (1) Subject to the provisions of appropriations Acts, amounts in the fund shall be available, without fiscal year limitation, to the Secretary for the following purposes:
      (A) Furnishing medical care and services under this chapter, to be available during any fiscal year for the same purposes and subject to the same limitations (other than with respect to the period of availability for obligation) as apply to amounts appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury for that fiscal year for medical care.
      (B) Expenses of the Department for the identification, billing, auditing, and collection of amounts owed the United States by reason of medical care and services furnished under this chapter.
    (2) Amounts available under paragraph (1) may not be used for any purpose other than a purpose set forth in subparagraph (A) or (B) of that paragraph.
    (3)      (A) If for fiscal year 1998 the Secretary determines that the total amount to be recovered under the provisions of law specified in subsection (b) will be less than the amount contained in the latest Congressional Budget Office baseline estimate (computed under section 257 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985) for the amount of such recoveries for fiscal year 1998 by at least $25,000,000, the Secretary shall promptly certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the amount of the shortfall (as estimated by the Secretary) that is in excess of $25,000,000. Upon receipt of such a certification, the Secretary of the Treasury shall, not later than 30 days after receiving the certification, deposit in the fund, from any unobligated amounts in the Treasury, an amount equal to the amount certified by the Secretary.
      (B) If for fiscal year 1998 a deposit is made under subparagraph (A) and the Secretary subsequently determines that the actual amount recovered for that fiscal year under the provisions of law specified in subsection (b) is greater than the amount estimated by the Secretary that was used for purposes of the certification by the Secretary under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall pay into the general fund of the Treasury, from amounts available for medical care, an amount equal to the difference between the amount actually recovered and the amount so estimated (but not in excess of the amount of the deposit under subparagraph (A) pursuant to such certification).
      (C) If for fiscal year 1998 a deposit is made under subparagraph (A) and the Secretary subsequently determines that the actual amount recovered for that fiscal year under the provisions of law specified in subsection (b) is less than the amount estimated by the Secretary that was used for purposes of the certification by the Secretary under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall promptly certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the amount of the shortfall. Upon receipt of such a certification, the Secretary of the Treasury shall, not later than 30 days after receiving the certification, deposit in the fund, from any unobligated amounts in the Treasury, an amount equal to the amount certified by the Secretary.
  (d)    (1) Of the total amount recovered or collected by the Department during a fiscal year under the provisions of law referred to in subsection (b) and made available from the fund, the Secretary shall make available to each designated health care region of the Department an amount that bears the same ratio to the total amount so made available as the amount recovered or collected by such region during that fiscal year under such provisions of law bears to such total amount recovered or collected during that fiscal year. The Secretary shall make available to each region the entirety of the amount specified to be made available to such region by the preceding sentence.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ””designated health care regions of the Department““ means the geographic areas designated by the Secretary for purposes of the management of, and allocation of resources for, health care services provided by the Department.
  (e)    (1) The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives quarterly reports on the operation of this section for fiscal years 1998, 1999, and 2000 and for the first quarter of fiscal year 2001. Each such report shall specify the amount collected under each of the provisions specified in subsection (b) during the preceding quarter and the amount originally estimated to be collected under each such provision during such quarter.
    (2) A report under paragraph (1) for a quarter shall be submitted not later than 45 days after the end of that quarter.
  (f) Amounts recovered or collected under the provisions of law referred to in subsection (b) shall be treated for the purposes of sections 251 and 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901, 902) as offsets to discretionary appropriations (rather than as offsets to direct spending) to the extent that such amounts are made available for expenditure in appropriations Acts for the purposes specified in subsection (c).
