  (a) In assisting homeless veterans, the Secretary shall coordinate with, and may provide services authorized under this title in conjunction with, State and local governments, other appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and nongovernmental organizations.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall require the director of each medical center or the director of each regional benefits office to make an assessment of the needs of homeless veterans living within the area served by the medical center or regional office, as the case may be.
    (2) Each such assessment shall be made in coordination with representatives of State and local governments, other appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and nongovernmental organizations that have experience working with homeless persons in that area.
    (3) Each such assessment shall identify the needs of homeless veterans with respect to the following:
      (A) Health care.
      (B) Education and training.
      (C) Employment.
      (D) Shelter.
      (E) Counseling.
      (F) Outreach services.
    (4) Each assessment shall also indicate the extent to which the needs referred to in paragraph (3) are being met adequately by the programs of the Department, of other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, of State and local governments, and of nongovernmental organizations.
    (5) Each assessment shall be carried out in accordance with uniform procedures and guidelines prescribed by the Secretary.
  (c) In furtherance of subsection (a), the Secretary shall require the director of each medical center and the director of each regional benefits office, in coordination with representatives of State and local governments, other Federal officials, and nongovernmental organizations that have experience working with homeless persons in the areas served by such facility or office, to–
    (1) develop a list of all public and private programs that provide assistance to homeless persons or homeless veterans in the area concerned, together with a description of the services offered by those programs;
    (2) seek to encourage the development by the representatives of such entities, in coordination with the director, of a plan to coordinate among such public and private programs the provision of services to homeless veterans;
    (3) take appropriate action to meet, to the maximum extent practicable through existing programs and available resources, the needs of homeless veterans that are identified in the assessment conducted under subsection (b); and
    (4) attempt to inform homeless veterans whose needs the director cannot meet under paragraph (3) of the services available to such veterans within the area served by such center or office.
