  (a) Until and unless the Secretary has received from the insured a request or directive in writing exercising any other dividend option allowable under the insured“s policy, any dividend accumulations and unpaid dividends shall be applied in payment of premiums becoming due on insurance subsequent to the date the dividend is payable after January 1, 1952.
  (b) No claim by an insured for payment in cash of a special dividend declared prior to January 1, 1952, shall be processed by the Secretary unless such claim was received within six years after such dividend was declared. Whenever any claim for payment of a special dividend, the processing of which is barred by this subsection, is received by the Secretary, it shall be returned to the claimant, with a copy of this subsection, and such action shall be a complete response without further communication.
  (c) The Secretary, upon application in writing made by the insured for insurance under this subsection, and without proof of good health, is authorized to apply any dividend due and payable on national service life insurance after the date of such application to purchase paid up insurance. Also, the Secretary, upon application in writing made by the insured during the one-year period beginning September 1, 1991, and without proof of good health, is authorized to apply any national service life insurance dividend credits and deposits of such insured existing at the date of the insured“s application to purchase paid up insurance. After September 1, 1992, the Secretary may, from time to time, provide for further one-year periods during which insureds may purchase additional paid up insurance from existing dividend credits and deposits. Any such period for the purchase of additional paid up insurance may be allowed only if the Secretary determines in the case of any such period that it would be actuarially and administratively sound to do so. Any dividends, dividend credits, or deposits on endowment policies may be used under this subsection only to purchase additional paid up endowment insurance which matures concurrently with the basic policy. Any dividends, dividend credits, or deposits on policies (other than endowment policies) may be used under this section only to purchase additional paid up whole life insurance. The paid up insurance granted under this subsection shall be in addition to any insurance otherwise authorized under this title, or under prior provisions of law. The paid up insurance granted under this subsection shall be issued on the same terms and conditions as are contained in the standard policies of national service life insurance except (1) the premium rates for such insurance and all cash and loan values thereon shall be based on such table of mortality and rate of interest per annum as may be prescribed by the Secretary; (2) the total disability income provision authorized under section 1915 of this title may not be added to insurance issued under this section; and (3) the insurance shall include such other changes in terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be reasonable and practicable.
