   The Secretary shall include in United States Government life insurance policies provision whereby an insured, who is totally disabled as a result of disease or injury for a period of four consecutive months or more before attaining the age of sixty-five years and before default in payment of any premium, shall be paid disability benefits at the rate of $5.75 monthly for each $1,000 of insurance in force when total disability benefits become payable. The amount of such monthly payment under the provisions of this section shall not be reduced because of payment of permanent and total disability benefits under the insurance policy. Such payments shall be effective as of the first day of the fifth consecutive month, and shall be made monthly during the continuance of such total disability. Such payments shall be concurrent with or independent of permanent and total disability benefits under the insurance policy. In addition to the monthly disability benefits the payment of premiums on the life insurance and for the total disability benefits authorized by this section shall be waived during the continuance of such total disability. Regulations shall provide for reexaminations of beneficiaries under this section; and, in the event that it is found that an insured is no longer totally disabled, the waiver of premiums and payment of benefits shall cease and the insurance policy, including the total disability provision, may be continued by payment of premiums as provided in said policy and the total disability provision. Neither the dividends nor the amount payable in any settlement under any United States Government life insurance policy shall be decreased because of disability benefits granted under the provisions of this section. The payment of total disability benefits shall not prejudice the right of any insured, who is totally and permanently disabled, to permanent and total disability benefits under the insured“s insurance policy. The provision authorized by this section shall not be included in any United States Government life insurance policy heretofore or hereafter issued, except upon application, payment of premium by the insured, and proof of good health satisfactory to the Secretary. The benefit granted under this section shall be on the basis of multiples of $500, and not less than $1,000 or more than the amount of insurance in force at time of application. The Secretary shall determine the amount of the monthly premium to cover the benefits of this section, and in order to continue such benefits in force the monthly premiums shall be payable until the insured attains the age of sixty-five years or until the prior maturity of the policy. In all other respects such monthly premium shall be payable under the same terms and conditions as the regular monthly premium on the United States Government life insurance policy.
