  (a)    (1) Subject to an election under paragraph (2), any policy of insurance purchased by the Secretary under section 1966 of this title shall automatically insure the following persons against death:
      (A) In the case of any member of a uniformed service on active duty (other than active duty for training)–
        (i) the member; and
        (ii) each insurable dependent of the member.
      (B) Any member of a uniformed service on active duty for training or inactive duty training scheduled in advance by competent authority.
      (C) In the case of any member of the Ready Reserve of a uniformed service who meets the qualifications set forth in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 1965(5) of this title–
        (i) the member; and
        (ii) each insurable dependent of the member.
    (2)      (A) A member may elect in writing not to be insured under this subchapter.
      (B) A member may elect in writing not to insure the member“s spouse under this subchapter.
    (3)      (A) Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the amount for which a person is insured under this subchapter is as follows:
        (i) In the case of a member, $400,000.
        (ii) In the case of a member“s spouse, $100,000.
        (iii) In the case of a member“s child, $10,000.
      (B) A member may elect in writing to be insured or to insure the member“s spouse in an amount less than the amount provided for under subparagraph (A). The member may not elect to insure the member“s child in an amount less than $10,000. The amount of insurance so elected shall, in the case of a member, be evenly divisible by $50,000 and, in the case of a member“s spouse,,\1\N be evenly divisible by $10,000.
      (C) In no case may the amount of insurance coverage under this subsection of a member“s spouse exceed the amount of insurance coverage of the member.
    (4)      (A) An insurable dependent of a member is not insured under this chapter unless the member is insured under this subchapter.
      (B) An insurable dependent who is a child may not be insured at any time by the insurance coverage under this chapter of more than one member. If an insurable dependent who is a child is otherwise eligible to be insured by the coverage of more than one member under this chapter, the child shall be insured by the coverage of the member whose eligibility for insurance under this subchapter occurred first, except that if that member does not have legal custody of the child, the child shall be insured by the coverage of the member who has legal custody of the child.
    (5) The insurance shall be effective with respect to a member and the insurable dependents of the member on the latest of the following dates:
      (A) The first day of active duty or active duty for training.
      (B) The beginning of a period of inactive duty training scheduled in advance by competent authority.
      (C) The first day a member of the Ready Reserve meets the qualifications set forth in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 1965(5) of this title.
      (D) The date certified by the Secretary to the Secretary concerned as the date Servicemembers“ Group Life Insurance under this subchapter for the class or group concerned takes effect.
      (E) In the case of an insurable dependent who is a spouse, the date of marriage of the spouse to the member.
      (F) In the case of an insurable dependent who is a child, the date of birth of such child or, if the child is not the natural child of the member, the date on which the child acquires status as an insurable dependent of the member.
  (b) Any member (other than one who has elected not to be insured under this subchapter for the period or periods of duty involved)–
    (1) who, when authorized or required by competent authority, assumes an obligation to perform (for less than thirty-one days) active duty, or active duty for training, or inactive duty training scheduled in advance by competent authority; and
    (2) who is rendered uninsurable at standard premium rates according to the good health standards approved by the Secretary, or dies within one hundred and twenty days thereafter, from a disability, or aggravation of a preexisting disability, incurred by such member while proceeding directly to or returning directly from such active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training as the case may be;
       shall be deemed to have been on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training, as the case may be, and to have been insured under this subchapter at the time such disability was incurred or aggravated, and if death occurs within one hundred and twenty days thereafter as a result of such disability to have been insured at the time of death. In determining whether or not such individual was so authorized or required to perform such duty, and whether or not such member was rendered uninsurable or died within one hundred and twenty days thereafter from a disability so incurred or aggravated, there shall be taken into account the call or order to duty, the orders and authorizations of competent authority, the hour on which the member began to so proceed or to return, the hour on which such member was scheduled to arrive for, or on which such member ceased to perform such duty; the method of travel employed; such member“s itinerary; the manner in which the travel was performed; and the immediate cause of disability or death. Whenever any claim is filed alleging that the claimant is entitled to benefits by reason of this subsection, the burden of proof shall be on the claimant.
  (c) If a person eligible for insurance under this subchapter is not so insured, or is insured for less than the maximum amount provided for the person under subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(3), by reason of an election made by a member under subparagraph (B) of that subsection, the person may thereafter be insured under this subchapter in the maximum amount or any lesser amount elected as provided in such subparagraph (B) upon written application by the member, proof of good health of each person (other than a child) to be so insured, and compliance with such other terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary. Any former member insured under Veterans“ Group Life Insurance who again becomes eligible for Servicemembers“ Group Life Insurance and declines such coverage solely for the purpose of maintaining such member“s Veterans“ Group Life Insurance in effect shall upon termination of coverage under Veterans“ Group Life Insurance be automatically insured under Servicemembers“ Group Life Insurance, if otherwise eligible therefor.
  (d) Whenever a member has the opportunity to make an election under subsection (a) not to be insured under this subchapter, or to be insured under this subchapter in an amount less than the maximum amount in effect under paragraph (3)(A)(i) of that subsection, and at such other times periodically thereafter as the Secretary concerned considers appropriate, the Secretary concerned shall furnish to the member general information concerning life insurance. Such information shall include–
    (1) the purpose and role of life insurance in financial planning;
    (2) the difference between term life insurance and whole life insurance;
    (3) the availability of commercial life insurance; and
    (4) the relationship between Servicemembers“ Group Life Insurance and Veterans“ Group Life Insurance.
  (e) The effective date and time for any change in benefits under the Servicemembers“ Group Life Insurance Program shall be based on the date and time according to the time zone immediately west of the International Date Line.
  (f)    (1) If a member who is married and who is eligible for insurance under this section makes an election under subsection (a)(2)(A) not to be insured under this subchapter, the Secretary concerned shall notify the member“s spouse, in writing, of that election.
    (2) In the case of a member who is married and who is insured under this section and whose spouse is designated as a beneficiary of the member under this subchapter, whenever the member makes an election under subsection (a)(3)(B) for insurance of the member in an amount that is less than the maximum amount provided under subsection (a)(3)(A)(i), the Secretary concerned shall notify the member“s spouse, in writing, of that election–
      (A) in the case of the first such election; and
      (B) in the case of any subsequent such election if the effect of such election is to reduce the amount of insurance coverage of the member from that in effect immediately before such election.
    (3) In the case of a member who is married and who is insured under this section, if the member makes a designation under section 1970(a) of this title of any person other than the spouse or a child of the member as the beneficiary of the member for any amount of insurance under this subchapter, the Secretary concerned shall notify the member“s spouse, in writing, that such a beneficiary designation has been made by the member, except that such a notification is not required if the spouse has previously received such a notification under this paragraph and if immediately before the new designation by the member under section 1970(a) of this title the spouse is not a designated beneficiary of the member for any amount of insurance under this subchapter.
    (4) A notification required by this subsection is satisfied by a good faith effort to provide the required information to the spouse at the last address of the spouse in the records of the Secretary concerned. Failure to provide a notification required under this subsection in a timely manner does not affect the validity of any election specified in paragraph (1) or (2) or beneficiary designation specified in paragraph (3).
