  (a) T4Per Diem Payments for Furnishing Services to Homeless VeteransK.–(1) Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for such purpose, the Secretary, pursuant to such criteria as the Secretary shall prescribe, shall provide to a recipient of a grant under section 2011 of this title (or an entity eligible to receive a grant under that section which after November 10, 1992, establishes a program that the Secretary determines carries out the purposes described in that section) per diem payments for services furnished to any homeless veteran–
    (A) whom the Secretary has referred to the grant recipient (or entity eligible for such a grant); or
    (B) for whom the Secretary has authorized the provision of services.
  (2)    (A) The rate for such per diem payments shall be the daily cost of care estimated by the grant recipient or eligible entity adjusted by the Secretary under subparagraph (B). In no case may the rate determined under this paragraph exceed the rate authorized for State homes for domiciliary care under subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 1741 of this title, as the Secretary may increase from time to time under subsection (c) of that section.
    (B) The Secretary shall adjust the rate estimated by the grant recipient or eligible entity under subparagraph (A) to exclude other sources of income described in subparagraph (D) that the grant recipient or eligible entity certifies to be correct.
    (C) Each grant recipient or eligible entity shall provide to the Secretary such information with respect to other sources of income as the Secretary may require to make the adjustment under subparagraph (B).
    (D) The other sources of income referred to in subparagraphs (B) and (C) are payments to the grant recipient or eligible entity for furnishing services to homeless veterans under programs other than under this subchapter, including payments and grants from other departments and agencies of the United States, from departments or agencies of State or local government, and from private entities or organizations.
  (3) In a case in which the Secretary has authorized the provision of services, per diem payments under paragraph (1) may be paid retroactively for services provided not more than three days before the authorization was provided.
  (b) T4InspectionsK.–The Secretary may inspect any facility of a grant recipient or entity eligible for payments under subsection (a) at such times as the Secretary considers necessary. No per diem payment may be provided to a grant recipient or eligible entity under this section unless the facilities of the grant recipient or eligible entity meet such standards as the Secretary shall prescribe.
  (c) T4Life Safety CodeK.–(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a per diem payment may not be provided under this section to a grant recipient or eligible entity unless the facilities of the grant recipient or eligible entity, as the case may be, meet applicable fire and safety requirements under the Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association or such other comparable fire and safety requirements as the Secretary may specify.
  (2) During the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section, paragraph (1) shall not apply to an entity that received a grant under section 3 of the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Service Programs Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–590; 38 U.S.C. 7721 note) before that date if the entity meets fire and safety requirements established by the Secretary.
  (3) From amounts available for purposes of this section, not less than $5,000,000 shall be used only for grants to assist entities covered by paragraph (2) in meeting the Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association or such other comparable fire and safety requirements as the Secretary may specify.
