  (a) T4GrantsK.–Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for such purpose, the Secretary of Labor shall make grants to programs and facilities that the Secretary determines provide dedicated services for homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children.
  (b) T4Use of FundsK.–Grants under this section shall be used to provide job training, counseling, placement services (including job readiness and literacy and skills training) and child care services to expedite the reintegration of homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children into the labor force.
  (c) T4Requirement To Monitor Expenditures of FundsK.–(1) The Secretary of Labor shall collect such information as that Secretary considers appropriate to monitor and evaluate the distribution and expenditure of funds appropriated to carry out this section. The information shall include data with respect to the results or outcomes of the services provided to each homeless veteran under this section.
  (2) Information under paragraph (1) shall be furnished in such form and manner as the Secretary of Labor may specify.
  (d) T4Administration Through the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment and TrainingK.–The Secretary of Labor shall carry out this section through the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment and Training.
  (e) T4Biennial Report to CongressK.–The Secretary of Labor shall include as part of the report required under section 2021(d) of this title an evaluation of the grant program under this section, which shall include an evaluation of services furnished to veterans under this section and an analysis of the information collected under subsection (c).
  (f) T4Authorization of AppropriationsK.–(1) In addition to any amount authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 2021 of this title, there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2015.
  (2) Funds appropriated to carry out this section shall remain available until expended. Funds obligated in any fiscal year to carry out this section may be expended in that fiscal year and the succeeding fiscal year.
