  (a) T4Outreach PlanK.–The Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Health, shall provide for appropriate officials of the Mental Health Service and the Readjustment Counseling Service of the Veterans Health Administration to develop a coordinated plan for joint outreach by the two Services to veterans at risk of homelessness, including particularly veterans who are being discharged or released from institutions after inpatient psychiatric care, substance abuse treatment, or imprisonment.
  (b) T4Matters To Be IncludedK.–The outreach plan under subsection (a) shall include the following:
    (1) Strategies to identify and collaborate with non-Department entities used by veterans who have not traditionally used Department services to further outreach efforts.
    (2) Strategies to ensure that mentoring programs, recovery support groups, and other appropriate support networks are optimally available to veterans.
    (3) Appropriate programs or referrals to family support programs.
    (4) Means to increase access to case management services.
    (5) Plans for making additional employment services accessible to veterans.
    (6) Appropriate referral sources for mental health and substance abuse services.
  (c) T4Cooperative RelationshipsK.–The outreach plan under subsection (a) shall identify strategies for the Department to enter into formal cooperative relationships with entities outside the Department to facilitate making services and resources optimally available to veterans.
  (d) T4Review of PlanK.–The Secretary shall submit the outreach plan under subsection (a) to the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans for its review and consultation.
  (e) T4Outreach ProgramK.–(1) The Secretary shall carry out an outreach program to provide information to homeless veterans and veterans at risk of homelessness. The program shall include at a minimum–
    (A) provision of information about benefits available to eligible veterans from the Department; and
    (B) contact information for local Department facilities, including medical facilities, regional offices, and veterans centers.
  (2) In developing and carrying out the program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, consult with appropriate public and private organizations, including the Bureau of Prisons, State social service agencies, the Department of Defense, and mental health, veterans, and homeless advocates–
    (A) for assistance in identifying and contacting veterans who are homeless or at risk of homelessness;
    (B) to coordinate appropriate outreach activities with those organizations; and
    (C) to coordinate services provided to veterans with services provided by those organizations.
  (f) T4ReportsK.–(1) Not later than October 1, 2002, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives an initial report that contains an evaluation of outreach activities carried out by the Secretary with respect to homeless veterans, including outreach regarding clinical issues and other benefits administered under this title. The Secretary shall conduct the evaluation in consultation with the Under Secretary for Benefits, the Department of Veterans Affairs central office official responsible for the administration of the Readjustment Counseling Service, the Director of Homeless Veterans Programs, and the Department of Veterans Affairs central office official responsible for the administration of the Mental Health Strategic Health Care Group.
  (2) Not later than December 31, 2005, the Secretary shall submit to the committees referred to in paragraph (1) an interim report on outreach activities carried out by the Secretary with respect to homeless veterans. The report shall include the following:
    (A) The Secretary“s outreach plan under subsection (a), including goals and time lines for implementation of the plan for particular facilities and service networks.
    (B) A description of the implementation and operation of the outreach program under subsection (e).
    (C) A description of the implementation and operation of the program under section 2023 of this title.
  (3) Not later than July 1, 2007, the Secretary shall submit to the committees referred to in paragraph (1) a final report on outreach activities carried out by the Secretary with respect to homeless veterans. The report shall include the following:
    (A) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the outreach plan under subsection (a).
    (B) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the outreach program under subsection (e).
    (C) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the demonstration program under section 2023 of this title.
    (D) Recommendations, if any, regarding an extension or modification of such outreach plan, such outreach program, and such demonstration program.
