  (a) T4Annual ReportK.–Not later than June 15 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the activities of the Department during the calendar year preceding the report under programs of the Department under this chapter and other programs of the Department for the provision of assistance to homeless veterans.
  (b) T4General Contents of ReportK.–Each report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
    (1) The number of homeless veterans provided assistance under the programs referred to in subsection (a).
    (2) The cost to the Department of providing such assistance under those programs.
    (3) The Secretary“s evaluation of the effectiveness of the programs of the Department in providing assistance to homeless veterans, including–
      (A) residential work-therapy programs;
      (B) programs combining outreach, community-based residential treatment, and case-management; and
      (C) contract care programs for alcohol and drug-dependence or use disabilities.
    (4) The Secretary“s evaluation of the effectiveness of programs established by recipients of grants under section 2011 of this title and a description of the experience of those recipients in applying for and receiving grants from the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to serve primarily homeless persons who are veterans.
    (5) Information on the efforts of the Secretary to coordinate the delivery of housing and services to homeless veterans with other Federal departments and agencies, including–
      (A) the Department of Defense;
      (B) the Department of Health and Human Services;
      (C) the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
      (D) the Department of Justice;
      (E) the Department of Labor;
      (F) the Interagency Council on Homelessness;
      (G) the Social Security Administration; and
      (H) any other Federal department or agency with which the Secretary coordinates the delivery of housing and services to homeless veterans.
    (6) Any other information on those programs and on the provision of such assistance that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (c) T4Health Care Contents of ReportK.–Each report under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to programs of the Department addressing health care needs of homeless veterans, the following:
    (1) Information about expenditures, costs, and workload under the program of the Department known as the Health Care for Homeless Veterans program (HCHV).
    (2) Information about the veterans contacted through that program.
    (3) Information about program treatment outcomes under that program.
    (4) Information about supported housing programs.
    (5) Information about the Department“s grant and per diem provider program under subchapter II of this chapter.
    (6) The findings and conclusions of the assessments of the medical needs of homeless veterans conducted under section 2034(b) of this title.
    (7) Other information the Secretary considers relevant in assessing those programs.
  (d) T4Benefits Content of ReportK.–Each report under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to programs and activities of the Veterans Benefits Administration in processing of claims for benefits of homeless veterans during the preceding year, the following:
    (1) Information on costs, expenditures, and workload of Veterans Benefits Administration claims evaluators in processing claims for benefits of homeless veterans.
    (2) Information on the filing of claims for benefits by homeless veterans.
    (3) Information on efforts undertaken to expedite the processing of claims for benefits of homeless veterans.
    (4) Other information that the Secretary considers relevant in assessing the programs and activities.
