  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–(1) There is established in the Department the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Committee““).
  (2) The Committee shall consist of not more than 15 members appointed by the Secretary from among the following:
    (A) Veterans service organizations.
    (B) Advocates of homeless veterans and other homeless individuals.
    (C) Community-based providers of services to homeless individuals.
    (D) Previously homeless veterans.
    (E) State veterans affairs officials.
    (F) Experts in the treatment of individuals with mental illness.
    (G) Experts in the treatment of substance use disorders.
    (H) Experts in the development of permanent housing alternatives for lower income populations.
    (I) Experts in vocational rehabilitation.
    (J) Such other organizations or groups as the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (3) The Committee shall include, as ex officio members, the following:
    (A) The Secretary of Labor (or a representative of the Secretary selected after consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment).
    (B) The Secretary of Defense (or a representative of the Secretary).
    (C) The Secretary of Health and Human Services (or a representative of the Secretary).
    (D) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (or a representative of the Secretary).
    (E) The Executive Director of the Interagency Council on Homelessness (or a representative of the Executive Director).
    (F) The Under Secretary for Health (or a representative of the Under Secretary after consultation with the Director of the Office of Homeless Veterans Programs).
    (G) The Under Secretary for Benefits (or a representative of the Under Secretary after consultation with the Director of the Office of Homeless Veterans Programs).
  (4)    (A) The Secretary shall determine the terms of service and allowances of the members of the Committee, except that a term of service may not exceed three years. The Secretary may reappoint any member for additional terms of service.
    (B) Members of the Committee shall serve without pay. Members may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence for travel in connection with their duties as members of the Committee.
  (b) T4DutiesK.–(1) The Secretary shall consult with and seek the advice of the Committee on a regular basis with respect to the provision by the Department of benefits and services to homeless veterans.
  (2) In providing advice to the Secretary under this subsection, the Committee shall–
    (A) assemble and review information relating to the needs of homeless veterans;
    (B) provide an on-going assessment of the effectiveness of the policies, organizational structures, and services of the Department in assisting homeless veterans; and
    (C) provide on-going advice on the most appropriate means of providing assistance to homeless veterans.
  (3) The Committee shall–
    (A) review the continuum of services provided by the Department directly or by contract in order to define cross-cutting issues and to improve coordination of all services with the Department that are involved in addressing the special needs of homeless veterans;
    (B) identify (through the annual assessments under section 2034 of this title and other available resources) gaps in programs of the Department in serving homeless veterans, including identification of geographic areas with unmet needs, and provide recommendations to address those gaps;
    (C) identify gaps in existing information systems on homeless veterans, both within and outside the Department, and provide recommendations about redressing problems in data collection;
    (D) identify barriers under existing laws and policies to effective coordination by the Department with other Federal agencies and with State and local agencies addressing homeless populations;
    (E) identify opportunities for increased liaison by the Department with nongovernmental organizations and individual groups providing services to homeless populations;
    (F) with appropriate officials of the Department designated by the Secretary, participate with the Interagency Council on the Homeless under title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11311 et seq.);
    (G) recommend appropriate funding levels for specialized programs for homeless veterans provided or funded by the Department;
    (H) recommend appropriate placement options for veterans who, because of advanced age, frailty, or severe mental illness, may not be appropriate candidates for vocational rehabilitation or independent living; and
      (I) perform such other functions as the Secretary may direct.
  (c) T4ReportsK.–(1) Not later than March 31 of each year, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the Department that relate to homeless veterans. Each such report shall include–
    (A) an assessment of the needs of homeless veterans;
    (B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to meet such needs;
    (C) a review of the activities of the Committee; and
    (D) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative and legislative action) as the Committee considers appropriate.
  (2) Not later than 90 days after the receipt of a report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transmit to the Committees on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a copy of the report, together with any comments and recommendations concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
  (4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the previous annual report of the Secretary submitted pursuant to that section.
  (d) T4TerminationK.–The Committee shall cease to exist December 31, 2012.
