  (a) The Secretary shall furnish, when requested, appropriate Government headstones or markers at the expense of the United States for the unmarked graves of the following:
    (1) Any individual buried in a national cemetery or in a post cemetery.
    (2) Any individual eligible for burial in a national cemetery (but not buried there), except for those persons or classes of persons enumerated in section 2402(4), (5), and (6) of this title.
    (3) Soldiers of the Union and Confederate Armies of the Civil War.
    (4) Any individual described in section 2402(5) of this title who is buried in a veterans“ cemetery owned by a State.
    (5) Any individual who at the time of death was entitled to retired pay under chapter 67 \1\N of title 10 or would have been entitled to retired pay under that chapter but for the fact that the person was under 60 years of age.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall furnish, when requested, an appropriate memorial headstone or marker for the purpose of commemorating an eligible individual whose remains are unavailable. Such a headstone or marker shall be furnished for placement in a national cemetery area reserved for that purpose under section 2403 of this title, a veterans“ cemetery owned by a State, or, in the case of a veteran, in a State, local, or private cemetery.
    (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), an eligible individual is any of the following:
      (A) A veteran.
      (B) The spouse or surviving spouse of a veteran.
    (3) For purposes of paragraph (1), the remains of an individual shall be considered to be unavailable if the individual“s remains–
      (A) have not been recovered or identified;
      (B) were buried at sea, whether by the individual“s own choice or otherwise;
      (C) were donated to science; or
      (D) were cremated and the ashes scattered without interment of any portion of the ashes.
    (4) For purposes of this subsection:
      (A) The term ””veteran““ includes an individual who dies in the active military, naval, or air service.
      (B) The term ””surviving spouse““ includes an unremarried surviving spouse whose subsequent remarriage was terminated by death or divorce.
  (c) A headstone or marker furnished under subsection (a) or (b) of this section may be of any material, including but not limited to marble, granite, bronze, or slate, requested by the person entitled to request such headstone or marker if the material requested is determined by the Secretary (1) to be cost effective, and (2) in a case in which the headstone or marker is to be placed in a national cemetery, to be aesthetically compatible with the area of the cemetery in which it is to be placed.
  (d)    (1) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide an outer burial receptacle for each new grave in an open cemetery under the control of the National Cemetery Administration in which remains are interred in a casket. The Secretary of the Army may provide an outer burial receptacle for such a grave in the Arlington National Cemetery.
    (2) The use of outer burial receptacles in a cemetery under the control of the National Cemetery Administration or in the Arlington National Cemetery shall be in accordance with regulations or procedures approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or Secretary of the Army, respectively.
    (3) Regulations or procedures under paragraph (2) may specify that–
      (A) an outer burial receptacle other than a grave liner be provided in lieu of a grave liner at the election of the survivors of the interred veteran; and
      (B) if an outer burial receptacle other than a grave liner is provided in lieu of a grave liner upon an election of such survivors, such survivors be required–
        (i) to pay the amount by which the cost of the outer burial receptacle exceeds the cost of the grave liner that would otherwise have been provided in the absence of the election; and
        (ii) to pay the amount of the administrative costs incurred by the Secretary (or, with respect to Arlington National Cemetery, the Secretary of the Army) in providing the outer burial receptacle in lieu of such grave liner.
    (4) Regulations or procedures under paragraph (2) may provide for the use of a voucher system, or other system of reimbursement approved by the Secretary (or, with respect to Arlington National Cemetery, the Secretary of the Army), for payment for outer burial receptacles other than grave liners provided under such regulations or procedures.
  (e)    (1) When the Secretary has furnished a headstone or marker under subsection (a) for the unmarked grave of an individual, the Secretary shall, if feasible, add a memorial inscription to that headstone or marker rather than furnishing a separate headstone or marker under that subsection for the surviving spouse of such individual.
    (2) When the Secretary has furnished a memorial headstone or marker under subsection (b) for purposes of commemorating a veteran or an individual who died in the active military, naval, or air service, the Secretary shall, if feasible, add a memorial inscription to that headstone or marker rather than furnishing a separate memorial headstone or marker under that subsection for the surviving spouse of such individual.
