  (a)    (1) There is in the Department an Under Secretary for Health, who is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) The Under Secretary for Health shall be appointed without regard to political affiliation or activity and solely–
      (A) on the basis of demonstrated ability in the medical profession, in health-care administration and policy formulation, or in health-care fiscal management; and
      (B) on the basis of substantial experience in connection with the programs of the Veterans Health Administration or programs of similar content and scope.
  (b) The Under Secretary for Health is the head of, and is directly responsible to the Secretary for the operation of, the Veterans Health Administration.
  (c)    (1) Whenever a vacancy in the position of Under Secretary for Health occurs or is anticipated, the Secretary shall establish a commission to recommend individuals to the President for appointment to the position.
    (2) A commission established under this subsection shall be composed of the following members appointed by the Secretary:
      (A) Three persons representing clinical care and medical research and education activities affected by the Veterans Health Administration.
      (B) Two persons representing veterans served by the Veterans Health Administration.
      (C) Two persons who have experience in the management of veterans health services and research programs, or programs of similar content and scope.
      (D) The Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
      (E) The Chairman of the Special Medical Advisory Group established under section 7312 of this title.
      (F) One person who has held the position of Under Secretary for Health (including service as Chief Medical Director of the Veterans“ Administration), if the Secretary determines that it is desirable for such person to be a member of the commission.
    (3) A commission established under this subsection shall recommend at least three individuals for appointment to the position of Under Secretary for Health. The commission shall submit all recommendations to the Secretary. The Secretary shall forward the recommendations to the President with any comments the Secretary considers appropriate. Thereafter, the President may request the commission to recommend additional individuals for appointment.
    (4) The Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs who performs personnel management and labor relations functions shall serve as the executive secretary of a commission established under this subsection.
