  (a) The Secretary shall actively promote the development and establishment of employment, training, and other related opportunities for (1) veterans who are participating or who have participated in a rehabilitation program under this chapter, (2) veterans with service-connected disabilities, and (3) other veterans to whom the employment emphases set forth in chapter 42 of this title apply. The Secretary shall promote the development and establishment of such opportunities through Department of Veterans Affairs staff outreach efforts to employers and through Department of Veterans Affairs coordination with Federal, State, and local governmental agencies and appropriate nongovernmental organizations. In carrying out the provisions of this subsection with respect to veterans referred to in clause (3) of the first sentence of this subsection, the Secretary shall place particular emphasis on the needs of categories of such veterans on the basis of applicable rates of unemployment.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary, pursuant to regulations prescribed in accordance with paragraph (3) of this subsection, may make payments to employers for providing on-job training to veterans who have been rehabilitated to the point of employability in individual cases in which the Secretary determines that such payment is necessary to obtain needed on-job training or to begin employment. Such payments may not exceed the direct expenses incurred by such employers in providing such on-job training or employment opportunity.
    (2) In any case in which a veteran described in paragraph (1) of this subsection participates in on-job training described in such paragraph that satisfies the criteria for payment of a training assistance allowance under section 3687 of this title, such veteran shall, to the extent that such veteran has remaining eligibility for and entitlement to such allowance, be paid such allowance.
    (3) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations under this subsection in consultation with the Secretary of Labor and, in prescribing such regulations, shall take into consideration the provisions of title V of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. ch. 16, subch. V) and section 4212 of this title, and regulations prescribed under such provisions.
