  (a) T4In GeneralK.–(1) There is in the Department a Director of Construction and Facilities Management, who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  (2) The position of Director of Construction and Facilities Management is a career reserved position, as such term is defined in section 3132(a)(8) of title 5.
  (3) The Director shall provide direct support to the Secretary in matters covered by the responsibilities of the Director under subsection (c).
  (4) The Director shall report to the Deputy Secretary in the discharge of the responsibilities of the Director under subsection (c).
  (b) T4QualificationsK.–Each individual appointed as Director of Construction and Facilities Management shall be an individual who–
    (1) holds an undergraduate or master“s degree in architectural design or engineering; and
    (2) has substantive professional experience in the area of construction project management.
  (c) T4ResponsibilitiesK.–(1) The Director of Construction and Facilities Management shall–
    (A) be responsible for overseeing and managing the planning, design, construction, and operation of facilities and infrastructure of the Department, including major and minor construction projects; and
    (B) perform such other functions as the Secretary shall prescribe.
  (2) In carrying out the oversight and management of construction and operation of facilities and infrastructure under this section, the Director shall be responsible for the following:
    (A) Development and updating of short-range and long-range strategic capital investment strategies and plans of the Department.
    (B) Planning, design, and construction of facilities for the Department, including determining architectural and engineering requirements and ensuring compliance of the Department with applicable laws relating to the construction program of the Department.
    (C) Management of the short-term and long-term leasing of real property by the Department.
    (D) Repair and maintenance of facilities of the Department, including custodial services, building management and administration, and maintenance of roads, grounds, and infrastructure.
    (E) Management of procurement and acquisition processes relating to the construction and operation of facilities of the Department, including the award of contracts related to design, construction, furnishing, and supplies and equipment.
