  (a) Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, each person electing to participate in the program shall agree to have a monthly deduction made from such person“s military pay. Such monthly deduction shall be in any amount not less than $25 nor more than $100 except that the amount must be divisible by 5. Any such amount contributed by the participant or contributed by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (c) of this section shall be deposited in a deposit fund account entitled the ””Post-Vietnam Era Veterans Education Account““ (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the ””fund““) to be established in the Treasury of the United States. Contributions made by the participant shall be limited to a maximum of $2,700.
  (b) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each monthly contribution made by a participant under subsection (a) shall entitle the participant to matching funds from the Department of Defense at the rate of $2 for each $1 contributed by the participant.
  (c) The Secretary of Defense is authorized to contribute to the fund of any participant such contributions as the Secretary of Defense deems necessary or appropriate to encourage persons to enter or remain in the Armed Forces, including contributions in lieu of, or to reduce the amount of, monthly deductions under subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary of Defense is authorized to issue such rules and regulations as the Secretary of Defense deems necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions of this subsection.
  (d) Subject to the maximum contribution prescribed by subsection (a) of this section, a participant shall be permitted, while serving on active duty, to make a lump-sum contribution to the fund. A lump-sum contribution to the fund by a participant shall be in addition to or in lieu of monthly deductions made from such participant“s military pay and shall be considered, for the purposes of paragraph (2) of section 3231(a) of this title, to have been made by monthly deductions from such participant“s military pay in the amount of $100 per month or in such lesser amount as may be specified by such participant pursuant to regulations issued jointly by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary.
  (e) Any amount transferred to the Secretary from the Secretary of a military department under an interagency agreement for the administration by the Department of Veterans Affairs of an educational assistance program established by the Secretary of Defense under chapter 107 of title 10 may be deposited into and disbursed from the fund for the purposes of such program.
