  (a) T4Establishment of ProgramK.–In instances where the educational assistance provided pursuant to section 3313(c)(1)(A) does not cover the full cost of established charges (as specified in section 3313), the Secretary shall carry out a program under which colleges and universities can, voluntarily, enter into an agreement with the Secretary to cover a portion of those established charges not otherwise covered under section 3313(c)(1)(A), which contributions shall be matched by equivalent contributions toward such costs by the Secretary. The program shall only apply to covered individuals described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 3311(b).
  (b) T4Designation of ProgramK.–The program under this section shall be known as the ””Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program““.
  (c) T4AgreementsK.–The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with each college or university seeking to participate in the program under this section. Each agreement shall specify the following:
    (1) The manner (whether by direct grant, scholarship, or otherwise) of the contributions to be made by the college or university concerned.
    (2) The maximum amount of the contribution to be made by the college or university concerned with respect to any particular individual in any given academic year.
    (3) The maximum number of individuals for whom the college or university concerned will make contributions in any given academic year.
    (4) Such other matters as the Secretary and the college or university concerned jointly consider appropriate.
  (d) T4Matching Contributions.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–In instances where the educational assistance provided an individual under section 3313(c)(1)(A) does not cover the full cost of tuition and mandatory fees at a college or university, the Secretary shall provide up to 50 percent of the remaining costs for tuition and mandatory fees if the college or university voluntarily enters into an agreement with the Secretary to match an equal percentage of any of the remaining costs for such tuition and fees.
    (2) T4Use of appropriated fundsK.–Amounts available to the Secretary under section 3324(b) for payment of the costs of this chapter shall be available to the Secretary for purposes of paragraph (1).
  (e) T4OutreachK.–The Secretary shall make available on the Internet website of the Department available to the public a current list of the colleges and universities participating in the program under this section. The list shall specify, for each college or university so listed, appropriate information on the agreement between the Secretary and such college or university under subsection (c).
