  (a) An eligible person or veteran shall receive the benefits of this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title while enrolled in a course of education offered by an educational institution only if (1) such course is approved as provided in this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title by the State approving agency for the State where such educational institution is located, or by the Secretary, or (2) such course is approved (A) for the enrollment of the particular individual under the provisions of section 3536 of this title or (B) for special restorative training under subchapter V of chapter 35 of this title. Approval of courses by State approving agencies shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title and such other regulations and policies as the State approving agency may adopt. Each State approving agency shall furnish the Secretary with a current list of educational institutions specifying courses which it has approved, and, in addition to such list, it shall furnish such other information to the Secretary as it and the Secretary may determine to be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title. Each State approving agency shall notify the Secretary of the disapproval of any course previously approved and shall set forth the reasons for such disapproval.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall be responsible for the approval of courses of education offered by any agency of the Federal Government authorized under other laws to supervise such education. The Secretary may approve any course in any other educational institution in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title.
    (2)      (A) Subject to sections 3675(b)(1) and (b)(2), 3680A, 3684, and 3696 of this title, the following programs are deemed to be approved for purposes of this chapter:
        (i) An accredited standard college degree program offered at a public or not-for-profit proprietary educational institution that is accredited by an agency or association recognized for that purpose by the Secretary of Education.
        (ii) A flight training course approved by the Federal Aviation Administration that is offered by a certified pilot school that possesses a valid Federal Aviation Administration pilot school certificate.
        (iii) An apprenticeship program registered with the Office of Apprenticeship (OA) of the Employment Training Administration of the Department of Labor or a State apprenticeship agency recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship pursuant to the Act of August 16, 1937 (popularly known as the ””National Apprenticeship Act““; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
        (iv) A program leading to a secondary school diploma offered by a secondary school approved in the State in which it is operating.
      (B) A licensure test offered by a Federal, State, or local government is deemed to be approved for purposes of this chapter.
  (c)    (1) In the case of programs of apprenticeship where–
      (A) the apprenticeship standards have been approved by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 16, 1937 (popularly known as the ””National Apprenticeship Act““) (29 U.S.C. 50a), as a national apprenticeship program for operation in more than one State, and
      (B) the training establishment is a carrier directly engaged in interstate commerce which provides such training in more than one State,
         the Secretary shall act as a ””State approving agency““ as such term is used in section 3687(a)(1) of this title and shall be responsible for the approval of all such programs.
    (2) The period of a program of apprenticeship may be determined based upon a specific period of time (commonly referred to as a ””time-based program““), based upon the demonstration of successful mastery of skills (commonly referred to as a ””competency-based program““), or based upon a combination thereof.
    (3)      (A) In the case of a competency-based program of apprenticeship, State approving agencies shall determine the period for which payment may be made for such a program under chapters 30 and 35 of this title and chapter 1606 of title 10. In determining the period of such a program, State approving agencies shall take into consideration the approximate term of the program recommended in registered apprenticeship program standards recognized by the Secretary of Labor.
      (B) The sponsor of a competency-based program of apprenticeship shall provide notice to the State approving agency involved of any such standards that may apply to the program and the proposed approximate period of training under the program.
    (4) The sponsor of a competency-based program of apprenticeship shall notify the Secretary upon the successful completion of a program of apprenticeship by an individual under chapter 30 or 35 of this title, or chapter 1606 of title 10, as the case may be.
  (d)    (1) Pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary and State approving agencies shall actively promote the development of apprenticeship and on the job training programs for the purposes of sections 3677 and 3687 of this title and shall utilize the services of disabled veterans“ outreach program specialists under section 4103A of this title to promote the development of such programs. The Secretary of Labor shall provide assistance and services to the Secretary, and to State approving agencies, to increase the use of apprenticeships.
    (2) In conjunction with outreach services provided by the Secretary under chapter 77 of this title for education and training benefits, each State approving agency shall conduct outreach programs and provide outreach services to eligible persons and veterans about education and training benefits available under applicable Federal and State law.
  (e) A program of education exclusively by correspondence, and the correspondence portion of a combination correspondence-residence course leading to a vocational objective, that is offered by an educational institution (as defined in section 3452(c) of this title) may be approved only if (1) the educational institution is accredited by an entity recognized by the Secretary of Education, and (2) at least 50 percent of those pursuing such a program or course require six months or more to complete the program or course.
