  (a)    (1) Each eligible veteran (as defined in section 3452(a)(1) and (2) of this title) and each eligible spouse or surviving spouse (as defined in section 3501(a)(1)(B), (C), (D), or (E) of this title) who enters into an enrollment agreement to pursue a program of education exclusively by correspondence shall be paid an educational assistance allowance computed at the rate of 55 percent of the established charge which the institution requires nonveterans to pay for the course or courses pursued by the eligible veteran or spouse or surviving spouse. The term ””established charge““ as used herein means the charge for the course or courses determined on the basis of the lowest extended time payment plan offered by the institution and approved by the appropriate State approving agency or the actual cost to the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse, whichever is the lesser. Such allowance shall be paid quarterly on a pro rata basis for the lessons completed by the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse and serviced by the institution.
    (2) The period of entitlement of any veteran or spouse or surviving spouse who is pursuing any program of education exclusively by correspondence shall be charged with one month for each $376 which is paid to the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse as an educational assistance allowance for such course.
    (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law unless enacted in express limitation of this paragraph, funds in the Department of Veterans Affairs readjustment benefits account shall be available for payments under paragraph (1) of this subsection for pursuit of a program of education exclusively by correspondence in which the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse enrolls after September 30, 1981.
  (b) The enrollment agreement shall fully disclose the obligation of both the institution and the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse and shall prominently display the provisions for affirmance, termination, refunds, and the conditions under which payment of the allowance is made by the Secretary to the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse. A copy of the enrollment agreement shall be furnished to each such veteran or spouse or surviving spouse at the time such veteran or spouse or surviving spouse signs such agreement. No such agreement shall be effective unless such veteran or spouse or surviving spouse shall, after the expiration of ten days after the enrollment agreement is signed, have signed and submitted to the Secretary a written statement, with a signed copy to the institution, specifically affirming the enrollment agreement. In the event the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse at any time notifies the institution of such veteran“s or spouse“s intention not to affirm the agreement in accordance with the preceding sentence, the institution, without imposing any penalty or charging any fee shall promptly make a full refund of all amounts paid.
  (c) In the event a veteran or spouse or surviving spouse elects to terminate such veteran“s or spouse“s enrollment under an affirmed enrollment agreement, the institution may charge the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse a registration or similar fee not in excess of 10 percent of the tuition for the course, or $50, whichever is less. Where the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse elects to terminate the agreement after completion of one or more but less than 25 percent of the total number of lessons comprising the course, the institution may retain such registration or similar fee plus 25 percent of the tuition for the course. Where the veteran or spouse or surviving spouse elects to terminate the agreement after completion of 25 percent but less than 50 percent of the lessons comprising the course, the institution may retain the full registration or similar fee plus 50 percent of the course tuition. If 50 percent or more of the lessons are completed, no refund of tuition is required.
