  (a)    (1) There is hereby established within the Department of Labor an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on Veterans Employment, Training, and Employer Outreach.
    (2) The advisory committee shall–
      (A) assess the employment and training needs of veterans and their integration into the workforce;
      (B) determine the extent to which the programs and activities of the Department of Labor are meeting such needs;
      (C) assist the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment and Training in carrying out outreach activities to employers with respect to the training and skills of veterans and the advantages afforded employers by hiring veterans;
      (D) make recommendations to the Secretary, through the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment and Training, with respect to outreach activities and the employment and training of veterans; and
      (E) carry out such other activities that are necessary to make the reports and recommendations referred to in subsection (f) of this section.
  (b) The Secretary of Labor shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the advisory committee with respect to the matters referred to in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
  (c)    (1) The Secretary of Labor shall appoint at least 12, but no more than 16, individuals to serve as members of the advisory committee as follows:
      (A) Seven individuals, one each from among representatives nominated by each of the following organizations:
        (i) The National Society of Human Resource Managers.
        (ii) The Business Roundtable.
        (iii) The National Association of State Workforce Agencies.
        (iv) The United States Chamber of Commerce.
        (v) The National Federation of Independent Business.
        (vi) A nationally recognized labor union or organization.
        (vii) The National Governors Association.
      (B) Not more than five individuals from among representatives nominated by veterans service organizations that have a national employment program.
      (C) Not more than five individuals who are recognized authorities in the fields of business, employment, training, rehabilitation, or labor and who are not employees of the Department of Labor.
    (2) A vacancy in the advisory committee shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (d) The following, or their representatives, shall be ex officio, nonvoting members of the advisory committee:
    (1) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    (2) The Secretary of Defense.
    (3) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
    (4) The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans Employment and Training.
    (5) The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training.
    (6) The Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
  (e)    (1) The advisory committee shall meet at least quarterly.
    (2) The Secretary of Labor shall appoint the chairman of the advisory committee who shall serve in that position for no more than 2 consecutive years.
    (3)      (A) Members of the advisory committee shall serve without compensation.
      (B) Members of the advisory committee shall be allowed reasonable and necessary travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for persons serving intermittently in the Government service in accordance with the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of the responsibilities of the advisory committee.
    (4) The Secretary of Labor shall provide staff and administrative support to the advisory committee through the Veterans Employment and Training Service.
  (f)    (1) Not later than December 31 of each year, the advisory committee shall submit to the Secretary and to the Committees on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the employment and training needs of veterans, with special emphasis on disabled veterans, for the previous fiscal year. Each such report shall contain–
      (A) an assessment of the employment and training needs of veterans and their integration into the workforce;
      (B) an assessment of the outreach activities carried out by the Secretary of Labor to employers with respect to the training and skills of veterans and the advantages afforded employers by hiring veterans;
      (C) an evaluation of the extent to which the programs and activities of the Department of Labor are meeting such needs;
      (D) a description of the activities of the advisory committee during that fiscal year;
      (E) a description of activities that the advisory committee proposes to undertake in the succeeding fiscal year; and
      (F) any recommendations for legislation, administrative action, and other action that the advisory committee considers appropriate.
    (2) In addition to the annual reports made under paragraph (1), the advisory committee may make recommendations to the Secretary of Labor with respect to the employment and training needs of veterans at such times and in such manner as the advisory committee determines appropriate.
  (g) Within 60 days after receiving each annual report referred to in subsection (f)(1), the Secretary of Labor shall transmit to Congress a copy of the report together with any comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (h) The advisory committee shall continue until terminated by law.
