  (a) T4Demonstration Project AuthorizedK.–The Assistant Secretary for Veterans“ Employment and Training may carry out a demonstration project on credentialing in accordance with this section for the purpose of facilitating the seamless transition of members of the Armed Forces from service on active duty to civilian employment.
  (b) T4Identification of Military Occupational Specialties and Associated Credentials and LicensesK.–(1) The Assistant Secretary shall select not less than 10 military occupational specialties for purposes of the demonstration project. Each specialty so selected by the Assistant Secretary shall require a skill or set of skills that is required for civilian employment in an industry with high growth or high worker demand.
  (2) The Assistant Secretary shall consult with appropriate Federal, State, and industry officials to identify requirements for credentials, certifications, and licenses that require a skill or set of skills required by a military occupational specialty selected under paragraph (1).
  (3) The Assistant Secretary shall analyze the requirements identified under paragraph (2) to determine which requirements may be satisfied by the skills, training, or experience acquired by members of the Armed Forces with the military occupational specialties selected under paragraph (1).
  (c) T4Elimination of Barriers to Credentialing and LicensureK.–The Assistant Secretary shall cooperate with appropriate Federal, State, and industry officials to reduce or eliminate any barriers to providing a credential, certification, or license to a veteran who acquired any skill, training, or experience while serving as a member of the Armed Forces with a military occupational specialty selected under subsection (b)(1) that satisfies the Federal and State requirements for the credential, certification, or license.
  (d) T4Task ForceK.–The Assistant Secretary may establish a task force of individuals with appropriate expertise to provide assistance to the Assistant Secretary in carrying out this section.
  (e) T4ConsultationK.–In carrying out this section, the Assistant Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, appropriate Federal and State officials, private-sector employers, labor organizations, and industry trade associations.
  (f) T4Contract AuthorityK.–For purposes of carrying out any part of the demonstration project under this section, the Assistant Secretary may enter into a contract with a public or private entity with appropriate expertise.
  (g) T4Period of ProjectK.–The period during which the Assistant Secretary may carry out the demonstration project under this section shall be the period beginning on the date that is 60 days after the date of the enactment of the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006 and ending on September 30, 2009.
  (h) T4FundingK.–The Assistant Secretary may carry out the demonstration project under this section utilizing unobligated funds that are appropriated in accordance with the authorization set forth in section 4106 of this title.
