  (a) T4Action for ReliefK.–(1) A person who receives from the Secretary a notification pursuant to section 4322(e) of this title of an unsuccessful effort to resolve a complaint relating to a State (as an employer) or a private employer may request that the Secretary refer the complaint to the Attorney General. If the Attorney General is reasonably satisfied that the person on whose behalf the complaint is referred is entitled to the rights or benefits sought, the Attorney General may appear on behalf of, and act as attorney for, the person on whose behalf the complaint is submitted and commence an action for relief under this chapter for such person. In the case of such an action against a State (as an employer), the action shall be brought in the name of the United States as the plaintiff in the action.
  (2) A person may commence an action for relief with respect to a complaint against a State (as an employer) or a private employer if the person–
    (A) has chosen not to apply to the Secretary for assistance under section 4322(a) of this title;
    (B) has chosen not to request that the Secretary refer the complaint to the Attorney General under paragraph (1); or
    (C) has been refused representation by the Attorney General with respect to the complaint under such paragraph.
  (b) T4JurisdictionK.–(1) In the case of an action against a State (as an employer) or a private employer commenced by the United States, the district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction over the action.
  (2) In the case of an action against a State (as an employer) by a person, the action may be brought in a State court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws of the State.
  (3) In the case of an action against a private employer by a person, the district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction of the action.
  (c) T4VenueK.–(1) In the case of an action by the United States against a State (as an employer), the action may proceed in the United States district court for any district in which the State exercises any authority or carries out any function.
  (2) In the case of an action against a private employer, the action may proceed in the United States district court for any district in which the private employer of the person maintains a place of business.
  (d) T4RemediesK.–(1) In any action under this section, the court may award relief as follows:
    (A) The court may require the employer to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
    (B) The court may require the employer to compensate the person for any loss of wages or benefits suffered by reason of such employer“s failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
    (C) The court may require the employer to pay the person an amount equal to the amount referred to in subparagraph (B) as liquidated damages, if the court determines that the employer“s failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter was willful.
  (2)    (A) Any compensation awarded under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) shall be in addition to, and shall not diminish, any of the other rights and benefits provided for under this chapter.
    (B) In the case of an action commenced in the name of the United States for which the relief includes compensation awarded under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1), such compensation shall be held in a special deposit account and shall be paid, on order of the Attorney General, directly to the person. If the compensation is not paid to the person because of inability to do so within a period of 3 years, the compensation shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts.
  (3) A State shall be subject to the same remedies, including prejudgment interest, as may be imposed upon any private employer under this section.
  (e) T4Equity PowersK.–The court may use its full equity powers, including temporary or permanent injunctions, temporary restraining orders, and contempt orders, to vindicate fully the rights or benefits of persons under this chapter.
  (f) T4StandingK.–An action under this chapter may be initiated only by a person claiming rights or benefits under this chapter under subsection (a) or by the United States under subsection (a)(1).
  (g) T4RespondentK.–In any action under this chapter, only an employer or a potential employer, as the case may be, shall be a necessary party respondent.
  (h) T4Fees, Court CostsK.–(1) No fees or court costs may be charged or taxed against any person claiming rights under this chapter.
  (2) In any action or proceeding to enforce a provision of this chapter by a person under subsection (a)(2) who obtained private counsel for such action or proceeding, the court may award any such person who prevails in such action or proceeding reasonable attorney fees, expert witness fees, and other litigation expenses.
    (i) T4Inapplicability of State Statute of LimitationsK.–No State statute of limitations shall apply to any proceeding under this chapter.
    (j) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, the term ””private employer““ includes a political subdivision of a State.
