  (a) T4Annual Report by SecretaryK.–The Secretary shall, after consultation with the Attorney General and the Special Counsel referred to in section 4324(a)(1), transmit to Congress not later than July 1 each year a report on matters for the fiscal year ending in the year before the year in which such report is transmitted as follows:
    (1) The number of cases reviewed by the Department of Labor under this chapter during the fiscal year for which the report is made.
    (2) The number of cases reviewed by the Secretary of Defense under the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve of the Department of Defense during the fiscal year for which the report is made.
    (3) The number of cases referred to the Attorney General or the Special Counsel pursuant to section 4323 or 4324, respectively, during such fiscal year and the number of actions initiated by the Office of Special Counsel before the Merit Systems Protection Board pursuant to section 4324 during such fiscal year.
    (4) The number of complaints filed by the Attorney General pursuant to section 4323 during such fiscal year.
    (5) The number of cases reviewed by the Secretary and the Secretary of Defense through the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve of the Department of Defense that involve the same person.
    (6) With respect to the cases reported on pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5)–
      (A) the number of such cases that involve a disability-related issue; and
      (B) the number of such cases that involve a person who has a service-connected disability.
    (7) The nature and status of each case reported on pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5).
    (8) With respect to the cases reported on pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) the number of such cases that involve persons with different occupations or persons seeking different occupations, as designated by the Standard Occupational Classification System.
    (9) An indication of whether there are any apparent patterns of violation of the provisions of this chapter, together with an explanation thereof.
    (10) Recommendations for administrative or legislative action that the Secretary, the Attorney General, or the Special Counsel considers necessary for the effective implementation of this chapter, including any action that could be taken to encourage mediation, before claims are filed under this chapter, between employers and persons seeking employment or reemployment.
  (b) T4Quarterly Reports.–
    (1) T4Quarterly report by secretaryK.–Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Special Counsel a report setting forth, for the previous full quarter, the following:
      (A) The number of cases for which the Secretary did not meet the requirements of section 4322(f) of this title.
      (B) The number of cases for which the Secretary received a request for a referral under paragraph (1) of section 4323(a) of this title but did not make such referral within the time period required by such paragraph.
    (2) T4Quarterly report by attorney generalK.–Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress, the Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, and the Special Counsel a report setting forth, for the previous full quarter, the number of cases for which the Attorney General received a referral under paragraph (1) of section 4323(a) of this title but did not meet the requirements of paragraph (2) of section 4323(a) of this title for such referral.
    (3) T4Quarterly report by special counselK.–Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, the Special Counsel shall submit to Congress, the Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, and the Attorney General a report setting forth, for the previous full quarter, the number of cases for which the Special Counsel received a referral under paragraph (1) of section 4324(a) of this title but did not meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(B) of section 4324(a) of this title for such referral.
  (c) T4Uniform Categorization of DataK.–The Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Special Counsel to ensure that–
    (1) the information in the reports required by this section is categorized in a uniform way; and
    (2) the Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Special Counsel each have electronic access to the case files reviewed under this chapter by the Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Special Counsel with due regard for the provisions of section 552a of title 5.
