  (a) A veteran who is otherwise eligible for a benefit specified in subsection (c) may not be paid or otherwise provided such benefit for any period during which such veteran is a fugitive felon. A dependent of a veteran who is otherwise eligible for a benefit specified in subsection (c) may not be paid or otherwise provided such benefit for any period during which such veteran or such dependent is a fugitive felon.
  (b) For purposes of this section:
    (1) The term ””fugitive felon““ means a person who is a fugitive by reason of–
      (A) fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, for an offense, or an attempt to commit an offense, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which the person flees; or
      (B) violating a condition of probation or parole imposed for commission of a felony under Federal or State law.
    (2) The term ””felony““ includes a high misdemeanor under the laws of a State which characterizes as high misdemeanors offenses that would be felony offenses under Federal law.
    (3) The term ””dependent““ means a spouse, surviving spouse, child, or dependent parent of a veteran.
  (c) A benefit specified in this subsection is a benefit under any of the following:
    (1) Chapter 11 of this title.
    (2) Chapter 13 of this title.
    (3) Chapter 15 of this title.
    (4) Chapter 17 of this title.
    (5) Chapter 19 of this title.
    (6) Chapter 30, 31, 32, 34, or 35 of this title.
    (7) Chapter 37 of this title.
  (d)    (1) The Secretary shall furnish to any Federal, State, or local law enforcement official, upon the written request of such official, the most current address maintained by the Secretary of a person who is eligible for a benefit specified in subsection (c) if such official–
      (A) provides to the Secretary such information as the Secretary may require to fully identify the person;
      (B) identifies the person as being a fugitive felon; and
      (C) certifies to the Secretary that apprehending such person is within the official duties of such official.
    (2) The Secretary shall enter into memoranda of understanding with Federal law enforcement agencies, and may enter into agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies, for purposes of furnishing information to such agencies under paragraph (1).
