  (a)    (1) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on Former Prisoners of War (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Committee““).
    (2)      (A) The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Secretary from the general public and shall include–
        (i) appropriate representatives of veterans who are former prisoners of war;
        (ii) individuals who are recognized authorities in fields pertinent to disabilities prevalent among former prisoners of war, including authorities in epidemiology, mental health, nutrition, geriatrics, and internal medicine; and
        (iii) appropriate representatives of disabled veterans.
      (B) The Committee shall also include, as ex officio members, the Under Secretary for Health and the Under Secretary for Benefits, or their designees.
    (3) The Secretary shall determine the number, terms of service, and pay and allowances of members of the Committee appointed by the Secretary, except that the term of service of any such member may not exceed three years.
  (b) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the Committee with respect to the administration of benefits under this title for veterans who are former prisoners of war and the needs of such veterans with respect to compensation, health care, and rehabilitation.
  (c)    (1) Not later than July 1 of each odd-numbered year, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the Department that pertain to veterans who are former prisoners of war. Each such report shall include–
      (A) an assessment of the needs of such veterans with respect to compensation, health care, and rehabilitation;
      (B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to meet such needs; and
      (C) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative and legislative action) as the Committee considers to be appropriate.
    (2) The Secretary shall, within 60 days after receiving each report under paragraph (1), submit to the Congress a copy of the report, together with any comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
    (4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the previous annual report of the Secretary submitted to the Congress pursuant to that section.
