  (a)    (1) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans (hereinafter in this section referred to as ””the Committee““).
    (2)      (A) The Committee shall consist of members appointed by the Secretary from the general public, including–
        (i) representatives of veterans who are minority group members;
        (ii) individuals who are recognized authorities in fields pertinent to the needs of veterans who are minority group members;
        (iii) veterans who are minority group members and who have experience in a military theater of operations; and
        (iv) veterans who are minority group members and who do not have such experience.
      (B) The Committee shall include, as ex officio members, the following:
        (i) The Secretary of Labor (or a representative of the Secretary of Labor designated by the Secretary after consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment).
        (ii) The Secretary of Defense (or a representative of the Secretary of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense).
        (iii) The Secretary of the Interior (or a representative of the Secretary of the Interior designated by the Secretary of the Interior).
        (iv) The Secretary of Commerce (or a representative of the Secretary of Commerce designated by the Secretary of Commerce).
        (v) The Secretary of Health and Human Services (or a representative of the Secretary of Health and Human Services designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services).
        (vi) The Under Secretary for Health and the Under Secretary for Benefits, or their designees.
      (C) The Secretary may invite representatives of other departments and agencies of the United States to participate in the meetings and other activities of the Committee.
    (3) The Secretary shall determine the number, terms of service, and pay and allowances of members of the Committee appointed by the Secretary, except that a term of service of any such member may not exceed three years. The Secretary may reappoint any such member for additional terms of service.
    (4) The Committee shall meet as often as the Secretary considers necessary or appropriate, but not less often than twice each fiscal year.
  (b) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the Committee with respect to the administration of benefits by the Department for veterans who are minority group members, reports and studies pertaining to such veterans and the needs of such veterans with respect to compensation, health care, rehabilitation, outreach, and other benefits and programs administered by the Department, including the Center for Minority Veterans.
  (c)    (1) Not later than July 1 of each year, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the Department that pertain to veterans who are minority group members. Each such report shall include–
      (A) an assessment of the needs of veterans who are minority group members with respect to compensation, health care, rehabilitation, outreach, and other benefits and programs administered by the Department;
      (B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to meet such needs; and
      (C) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative and legislative action) as the Committee considers appropriate.
    (2) The Secretary shall, within 60 days after receiving each report under paragraph (1), submit to Congress a copy of the report, together with any comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
    (4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the previous annual report of the Secretary submitted pursuant to such section.
  (d) In this section, the term ””minority group member““ means an individual who is–
    (1) Asian American;
    (2) Black;
    (3) Hispanic;
    (4) Native American (including American Indian, Alaskan Native, and Native Hawaiian); or
    (5) Pacific-Islander American.
  (e) The Committee shall cease to exist December 31, 2003.
