  (a)    (1) There is in the Department the Advisory Committee on the Readjustment of Veterans (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Committee““).
    (2) The Committee shall consist of not more than 18 members appointed by the Secretary from among individuals who–
      (A) have demonstrated significant civic or professional achievement; and
      (B) have experience with the provision of veterans benefits and services by the Department.
    (3) The Secretary shall seek to ensure that members appointed to the Committee include individuals from a wide variety of geographic areas and ethnic backgrounds, individuals from veterans service organizations, individuals with combat experience, and women.
    (4) The Secretary shall determine the terms of service and pay and allowances of the members of the Committee, except that a term of service may not exceed two years. The Secretary may reappoint any member for additional terms of service.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the Committee with respect to the provision by the Department of benefits and services to veterans in order to assist veterans in the readjustment to civilian life.
    (2)      (A) In providing advice to the Secretary under this subsection, the Committee shall–
        (i) assemble and review information relating to the needs of veterans in readjusting to civilian life;
        (ii) provide information relating to the nature and character of psychological problems arising from service in the Armed Forces;
        (iii) provide an on-going assessment of the effectiveness of the policies, organizational structures, and services of the Department in assisting veterans in readjusting to civilian life; and
        (iv) provide on-going advice on the most appropriate means of responding to the readjustment needs of veterans in the future.
      (B) In carrying out its duties under subparagraph (A), the Committee shall take into special account the needs of veterans who have served in a theater of combat operations.
  (c)    (1) Not later than March 31 of each year, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the Department that relate to the readjustment of veterans to civilian life. Each such report shall include–
      (A) an assessment of the needs of veterans with respect to readjustment to civilian life;
      (B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to meet such needs; and
      (C) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative and legislative action) as the Committee considers appropriate.
    (2) Not later than 90 days after the receipt of a report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transmit to the Committees on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a copy of the report, together with any comments and recommendations concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
    (4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the previous annual report of the Secretary submitted pursuant to that section.
  (d)    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the activities of the Committee under this section.
    (2) Section 14 of such Act shall not apply to the Committee.
