  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–(1) There is in the Department the Advisory Committee on Disability Compensation (in this section referred to as the ””Committee““).
  (2) The Committee shall consist of not more than 18 members appointed by the Secretary from among individuals who–
    (A) have experience with the provision of disability compensation by the Department; or
    (B) are leading medical or scientific experts in relevant fields.
  (3)    (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall determine the terms of service and pay and allowances of the members of the Committee.
    (B) A term of service may not exceed four years and shall be staggered to ensure that the dates for the termination of the members“ terms are not all the same.
    (C) The Secretary may reappoint any member for one or more additional terms of service.
  (4) The Secretary shall select a Chair from among the members of the Committee.
  (b) T4Responsibilities of CommitteeK.–(1) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the Committee with respect to the maintenance and periodic readjustment of the schedule for rating disabilities under section 1155 of this title.
  (2)    (A) In providing advice to the Secretary under this subsection, the Committee shall–
      (i) assemble and review relevant information relating to the needs of veterans with disabilities;
      (ii) provide information relating to the nature and character of disabilities arising from service in the Armed Forces;
      (iii) provide an on-going assessment of the effectiveness of the schedule for rating disabilities; and
      (iv) provide on-going advice on the most appropriate means of responding to the needs of veterans relating to disability compensation in the future.
    (B) In carrying out its duties under subparagraph (A), the Committee shall take into special account the needs of veterans who have served in a theater of combat operations.
  (c) T4ResourcesK.–The Secretary shall ensure that appropriate personnel, funding, and other resources are provided to the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
  (d) T4Biennial Reports to the SecretaryK.–(1) Not later than October 31, 2010, and not less frequently than every two years thereafter, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the Department that relate to the payment of disability compensation. Each such report shall include–
    (A) an assessment of the needs of veterans with respect to disability compensation; and
    (B) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative or legislative action) as the Committee considers appropriate.
  (2) The Committee may submit to the Secretary such other reports and recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
  (e) T4Biennial Reports to CongressK.–(1) Not later than 90 days after the receipt of a report required under subsection (d)(1), the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans“ Affairs of the House of Representatives a copy of such report, together with such comments and recommendations concerning such report as the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (2) The Secretary shall submit with each report required under paragraph (1) a summary of all reports and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary under subsection (d)(2) since the previous report transmitted by the Secretary under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (f) T4Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee ActK.–(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the activities of the Committee under this section.
  (2) Section 14 of such Act shall not apply to the Committee.
