  (a) The Office of the Under Secretary for Health shall consist of the following:
    (1) The Deputy Under Secretary for Health, who shall be the principal assistant of the Under Secretary for Health and who shall be a qualified doctor of medicine.
    (2) The Associate Deputy Under Secretary for Health, who shall be an assistant to the Under Secretary for Health and the Deputy Under Secretary for Health and who shall be a qualified doctor of medicine.
    (3) Not to exceed eight Assistant Under Secretaries for Health.
    (4) Such Medical Directors as may be appointed to suit the needs of the Department, who shall be either a qualified doctor of medicine or a qualified doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine.
    (5) A Director of Nursing Service, who shall be a qualified registered nurse and who shall be responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for the operation of the Nursing Service.
    (6) A Director of Pharmacy Service, a Director of Dietetic Service, a Director of Podiatric Service, and a Director of Optometric Service, who shall be responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for the operation of their respective Services.
    (7) Such directors of such other professional or auxiliary services as may be appointed to suit the needs of the Department, who shall be responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for the operation of their respective services.
    (8) The Director of the National Center for Preventive Health, who shall be responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for the operation of the Center.
    (9) Such other personnel as may be authorized by this chapter.
  (b) Of the Assistant Under Secretaries for Health appointed under subsection (a)(3)–
    (1) not more than two may be persons qualified in the administration of health services who are not doctors of medicine, dental surgery, or dental medicines;
    (2) one shall be a qualified doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine who shall be directly responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for the operation of the Dental Service; and
    (3) one shall be a qualified physician trained in, or having suitable extensive experience in, geriatrics who shall be responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for evaluating all research, educational, and clinical health-care programs carried out in the Administration in the field of geriatrics and who shall serve as the principal advisor to the Under Secretary for Health with respect to such programs.
  (c) Appointments under subsection (a) shall be made by the Secretary. In the case of appointments under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (8) of that subsection, such appointments shall be made upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health.
  (d) Except as provided in subsection (e)–
    (1) any appointment under this section shall be for a period of four years, with reappointment permissible for successive like periods,
    (2) any such appointment or reappointment may be extended by the Secretary for a period not in excess of three years, and
    (3) any person so appointed or reappointed or whose appointment or reappointment is extended shall be subject to removal by the Secretary for cause.
  (e)    (1) The Secretary may designate a member of the Chaplain Service of the Department as Director, Chaplain Service, for a period of two years, subject to removal by the Secretary for cause. Redesignation under this subsection may be made for successive like periods or for any period not exceeding two years.
    (2) A person designated as Director, Chaplain Service, shall at the end of such person“s period of service as Director revert to the position, grade, and status which such person held immediately before being designated Director, Chaplain Service, and all service as Director, Chaplain Service, shall be creditable as service in the former position.
