  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary shall establish in the Veterans Health Administration a committee to be known as the ””Committee on Care of Veterans with Traumatic Brain Injury““. The Under Secretary for Health shall appoint employees of the Department with expertise in the care of veterans with traumatic brain injury to serve on the committee.
  (b) T4Responsibilities of CommitteeK.–The committee shall assess, and carry out a continuing assessment of, the capability of the Veterans Health Administration to meet effectively the treatment and rehabilitation needs of veterans with traumatic brain injury. In carrying out that responsibility, the committee shall–
    (1) evaluate the care provided to such veterans through the Veterans Health Administration;
    (2) identify systemwide problems in caring for such veterans in facilities of the Veterans Health Administration;
    (3) identify specific facilities within the Veterans Health Administration at which program enrichment is needed to improve treatment and rehabilitation of such veterans; and
    (4) identify model programs which the committee considers to have been successful in the treatment and rehabilitation of such veterans and which should be implemented more widely in or through facilities of the Veterans Health Administration.
  (c) T4Advice and RecommendationsK.–The committee shall–
    (1) advise the Under Secretary regarding the development of policies for the care and rehabilitation of veterans with traumatic brain injury; and
    (2) make recommendations to the Under Secretary–
      (A) for improving programs of care of such veterans at specific facilities and throughout the Veterans Health Administration;
      (B) for establishing special programs of education and training relevant to the care of such veterans for employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
      (C) regarding research needs and priorities relevant to the care of such veterans; and
      (D) regarding the appropriate allocation of resources for all such activities.
  (d) T4Annual ReportK.–Not later than June 1, 2010, and each year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans“ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of this section. Each such report shall include the following for the calendar year preceding the year in which the report is submitted:
    (1) A list of the members of the committee.
    (2) The assessment of the Under Secretary for Health, after review of the findings of the committee, regarding the capability of the Veterans Health Administration, on a systemwide and facility-by-facility basis, to meet effectively the treatment and rehabilitation needs of veterans with traumatic brain injury.
    (3) The plans of the committee for further assessments.
    (4) The findings and recommendations made by the committee to the Under Secretary for Health and the views of the Under Secretary on such findings and recommendations.
    (5) A description of the steps taken, plans made (and a timetable for the execution of such plans), and resources to be applied toward improving the capability of the Veterans Health Administration to meet effectively the treatment and rehabilitation needs of veterans with traumatic brain injury.
