  (a) The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health, may employ, without regard to civil service or classification laws, rules, or regulations, personnel as follows:
    (1) On a temporary full-time basis, part-time basis, or without compensation basis, persons in the following positions:
      (A) Positions listed in section 7401(1) of this title.
      (B) Positions listed in section 7401(3) of this title.
      (C) Librarians.
      (D) Other professional, clerical, technical, and unskilled personnel (including interns, residents, trainees, and students in medical support programs).
    (2) On a fee basis, persons in the following positions:
      (A) Positions listed in section 7401(1) of this title.
      (B) Positions listed in section 7401(3) of this title.
      (C) Other professional and technical personnel.
  (b) Personnel employed under subsection (a)–
    (1) shall be in addition to personnel described in section 7306, paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 7401, and section 7408 of this title; and
    (2) shall be paid such rates of pay as the Secretary may prescribe.
  (c)    (1) Temporary full-time appointments under this section of persons in positions listed in paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 7401 of this title may be for a period in excess of 90 days only if the Under Secretary for Health finds that circumstances render it impracticable to obtain the necessary services through appointments under that section.
    (2) A temporary full-time appointment may not be made for a period in excess of two years in the case of a person who–
      (A) has successfully completed–
        (i) a full course of nursing in a recognized school of nursing, approved by the Secretary; or
        (ii) a full course of training for any category of personnel described in paragraph (3) of section 7401 of this title, or as a physician assistant, in a recognized education or training institution approved by the Secretary; and
      (B) is pending registration or licensure in a State or certification by a national board recognized by the Secretary.
    (3)      (A) Temporary full-time appointments of persons in positions referred to in subsection (a)(1)(D) shall not exceed three years.
      (B) Temporary full-time appointments under this paragraph may be renewed for one or more additional periods not in excess of three years each.
    (4) Temporary full-time appointments of other personnel may not be for a period in excess of one year except as authorized in subsection (f).
  (d) A part-time appointment may not be for a period of more than one year, except for appointments of persons specified in subsection (a)(1)(A) and interns, residents, and other trainees in medical support programs and except as authorized in subsection (f).
  (e) A student who has a temporary appointment under this section and who is pursuing a full course of nursing in a recognized school of nursing approved by the Secretary, or who is pursuing a full course of training for any category of personnel described in paragraph (3) of section 7401 of this title in a recognized education or training institution approved by the Secretary, may be reappointed for a period not to exceed the duration of the student“s academic program.
  (f) During any period during which the Secretary is exercising the authority provided in subsections (a) and (f)(1) of section 7403 of this title in connection with the appointment, under paragraph (3) of section 7401 of this title, of personnel in a category of personnel described in such paragraph–
    (1) the Secretary may make temporary full-time appointments of personnel in such category for periods exceeding 90 days if the Under Secretary for Health finds that circumstances render it impractical to obtain the necessary services through appointments under paragraph (3) of section 7401 of this title; and
    (2) part-time appointments of personnel in such category may be for periods of more than one year.
