  (a) The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation procedures for the consideration of grievances of section 7401(1) employees arising from adverse personnel actions in which each action taken either–
    (1) is not a major adverse action; or
    (2) does not arise out of a question of professional conduct or competence.
       Disciplinary Appeals Boards shall not have jurisdiction to review such matters, other than as part of a mixed case (as defined in section 7462(a)(3) of this title).
  (b) In the case of an employee who is a member of a collective bargaining unit under chapter 71 of title 5, the employee may seek review of an adverse action described in subsection (a) either under the grievance procedures provided through regulations prescribed under subsection (a) or through grievance procedures determined through collective bargaining, but not under both. The employee shall elect which grievance procedure to follow. Any such election may not be revoked.
  (c)    (1) In any case in which charges are brought against a section 7401(1) employee which could result in a major adverse action and which do not involve professional conduct or competence, the employee is entitled to the same notice and opportunity to answer with respect to those charges as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 7462(b)(1) of this title.
    (2) In any other case in which charges are brought against a section 7401(1) employee, the employee is entitled to–
      (A) an advance written notice stating the specific reason for the proposed action, and
      (B) a reasonable time to answer orally and in writing and to furnish affidavits and other documentary evidence in support of the answer.
  (d) Grievance procedures prescribed under subsection (a) shall include the following:
    (1) A right to formal review by an impartial examiner within the Department of Veterans Affairs, who, in the case of an adverse action arising from a question of professional conduct or competence, shall be selected from the panel designated under section 7464 of this title.
    (2) A right to a prompt report of the findings and recommendations by the impartial examiner.
    (3) A right to a prompt review of the examiner“s findings and recommendations by an official of a higher level than the official who decided upon the action. That official may accept, modify, or reject the examiner“s recommendations.
  (e) In any review of an adverse action under the grievance procedures prescribed under subsection (a), the employee is entitled to be represented by an attorney or other representative of the employee“s choice at all stages of the case.
