  (a)    (1) The purpose of this subsection is to enable Congress to ensure the equitable distribution of medical facilities throughout the United States, taking into consideration the comparative urgency of the need for the services to be provided in the case of each particular facility.
    (2) No funds may be appropriated for any fiscal year, and the Secretary may not obligate or expend funds (other than for advance planning and design), for any major medical facility project or any major medical facility lease unless funds for that project or lease have been specifically authorized by law.
    (3) For the purpose of this subsection:
      (A) The term ””major medical facility project““ means a project for the construction, alteration, or acquisition of a medical facility involving a total expenditure of more than $10,000,000, but such term does not include an acquisition by exchange.
      (B) The term ””major medical facility lease““ means a lease for space for use as a new medical facility at an average annual rental of more than $1,000,000.
  (b) Whenever the President or the Secretary submit to the Congress a request for the funding of a major medical facility project (as defined in subsection (a)(3)(A)) or a major medical facility lease (as defined in subsection (a)(3)(B)), the Secretary shall submit to each committee, on the same day, a prospectus of the proposed medical facility. Any such prospectus shall include the following:
    (1) A detailed estimate of the total costs of the medical facility to be constructed, altered, leased, or otherwise acquired under this subchapter, including a description of the location of such facility and, in the case of a prospectus proposing the construction of a new or replacement medical facility, a detailed report of the consideration that was given to acquiring an existing facility by lease or purchase and to the sharing of health-care resources with the Department of Defense under section 8111 of this title. Such detailed estimate shall include an identification of each of the following:
      (A) Total construction costs.
      (B) Activation costs.
      (C) Special purpose alterations (lump-sum payment) costs.
      (D) Number of personnel.
      (E) Total costs of ancillary services, equipment, and all other items.
    (2) Demographic data applicable to such facility, including information on projected changes in the population of veterans to be served by the facility over a five-year period, a ten-year period, and a twenty-year period.
    (3) Current and projected workload and utilization data regarding the facility, including information on projected changes in workload and utilization over a five-year period, a ten-year period, and a twenty-year period.
    (4) Projected operating costs of the facility, including both recurring and non-recurring costs (including and identifying both recurring and non-recurring costs (including activation costs and total costs of ancillary services, equipment and all other items)) over a five-year period, a ten-year period, and a twenty-year period.
    (5) The priority score assigned to the project or lease under the Department“s prioritization methodology and, if the project or lease is being proposed for funding before a project or lease with a higher score, a specific explanation of the factors other than the priority score that were considered and the basis on which the project or lease is proposed for funding ahead of projects or leases with higher priority scores.
    (6) In the case of a prospectus proposing the construction of a new or replacement medical facility, each of the following:
      (A) A detailed estimate of the total costs (including total construction costs, activation costs, special purpose alterations (lump-sum payment) costs, number of personnel and total costs of ancillary services, equipment and all other items) for each alternative to construction of the facility that was considered.
      (B) A comparison of total costs to total benefits for each such alternative.
      (C) An explanation of why the preferred alternative is the most effective means to achieve the stated project goals and the most cost-effective alternative.
  (c) Not less than 30 days before obligating funds for a major medical facility project approved by a law described in subsection (a)(2) of this section in an amount that would cause the total amount obligated for that project to exceed the amount specified in the law for that project (or would add to total obligations exceeding such specified amount) by more than 10 percent, the Secretary shall provide the committees with notice of the Secretary“s intention to do so and the reasons for the specified amount being exceeded.
  (d)    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), in any case in which the Secretary proposes that funds be used for a purpose other than the purpose for which such funds were appropriated, the Secretary shall promptly notify each committee, in writing, of the particulars involved and the reasons why such funds were not used for the purpose for which appropriated.
    (2)      (A) In any fiscal year, unobligated amounts in the Construction, Major Projects account that are a direct result of bid savings from a major construction project may only be obligated for major construction projects authorized for that fiscal year or a previous fiscal year.
      (B) Whenever the Secretary obligates amounts for a major construction project under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans“ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans“ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives notice of the following:
        (i) The major construction project that is the source of the bid savings.
        (ii) The other major construction project for which the amounts are being obligated.
        (iii) The amounts being obligated for such other major construction project.
      (C) The Secretary may not obligate an amount under subparagraph (A) to expand the purpose of a major construction project except pursuant to a provision of law enacted after the date on which the Secretary submits to the committees described in subparagraph (B) notice of the following:
        (i) The major construction project that is the source of the bid savings.
        (ii) The major construction project for which the Secretary intends to expand the purpose.
        (iii) A description of such expansion of purpose.
        (iv) The amounts the Secretary intends to obligate to expand the purpose.
  (e) The Secretary may accept gifts or donations for any of the purposes of this subchapter.
  (f) The Secretary may not obligate funds in an amount in excess of $500,000 from the Advance Planning Fund of the Department toward design or development of a major medical facility project (as defined in subsection (a)(3)(A)) until–
    (1) the Secretary submits to the committees a report on the proposed obligation; and
    (2) a period of 30 days has passed after the date on which the report is received by the committees.
  (g) The limitation in subsection (f) does not apply to a project for which funds have been authorized by law in accordance with subsection (a)(2).
