  (a) T4Required Coordination and Sharing of Health Care ResourcesK.–The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense shall enter into agreements and contracts for the mutually beneficial coordination, use, or exchange of use of the health care resources of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense with the goal of improving the access to, and quality and cost effectiveness of, the health care provided by the Veterans Health Administration and the Military Health System to the beneficiaries of both Departments.
  (b) T4Joint Requirements for Secretaries of Veterans Affairs and DefenseK.–To facilitate the mutually beneficial coordination, use, or exchange of use of the health care resources of the two Departments, the two Secretaries shall carry out the following functions:
    (1) Develop and publish a joint strategic vision statement and a joint strategic plan to shape, focus, and prioritize the coordination and sharing efforts among appropriate elements of the two Departments and incorporate the goals and requirements of the joint sharing plan into the strategic and performance plan of each Department under the Government Performance and Results Act.
    (2) Jointly fund the interagency committee provided for under subsection (c).
    (3) Continue to facilitate and improve sharing between individual Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense health care facilities, but giving priority of effort to initiatives (A) that improve sharing and coordination of health resources at the intraregional and nationwide levels, and (B) that improve the ability of both Departments to provide coordinated health care.
    (4) Establish a joint incentive program under subsection (d).
  (c) DOD–VA T4Health Executive CommitteeK.–(1) There is established an interagency committee to be known as the Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Health Executive Committee (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Committee““). The Committee is composed of–
    (A) the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs and such other officers and employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may designate; and
    (B) the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and such other officers and employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense may designate.
  (2)    (A) During odd-numbered fiscal years, the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall chair the Committee. During even-numbered fiscal years, the Under Secretary of Defense shall chair the Committee.
    (B) The Deputy Secretary and the Under Secretary shall determine the size and structure of the Committee, as well as the administrative and procedural guidelines for the operation of the Committee. The two Departments shall share equally the Committee“s cost of personnel and administrative support and services. Support for such purposes shall be provided at a level sufficient for the efficient operation of the Committee, including a permanent staff and, as required, other temporary working groups of appropriate departmental staff and outside experts.
  (3) The Committee shall recommend to the Secretaries strategic direction for the joint coordination and sharing efforts between and within the two Departments under this section and shall oversee implementation of those efforts.
  (4) The Committee shall submit to the two Secretaries and to Congress an annual report containing such recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
  (5) In order to enable the Committee to make recommendations in its annual report under paragraph (4), the Committee shall do the following:
    (A) Review existing policies, procedures, and practices relating to the coordination and sharing of health care resources between the two Departments.
    (B) Identify changes in policies, procedures, and practices that, in the judgment of the Committee, would promote mutually beneficial coordination, use, or exchange of use of the health care resources of the two Departments, with the goal of improving the access to, and quality and cost effectiveness of, the health care provided by the Veterans Health Administration and the Military Health System to the beneficiaries of both Departments.
    (C) Identify and assess further opportunities for the coordination and sharing of health care resources between the Departments that, in the judgment of the Committee, would not adversely affect the range of services, the quality of care, or the established priorities for care provided by either Department.
    (D) Review the plans of both Departments for the acquisition of additional health care resources, especially new facilities and major equipment and technology, in order to assess the potential effect of such plans on further opportunities for the coordination and sharing of health care resources.
    (E) Review the implementation of activities designed to promote the coordination and sharing of health care resources between the Departments.
  (6) The Committee chairman, under procedures jointly developed by the two Secretaries, may require the Inspector General of either or both Departments to assist in activities under paragraph (5)(E).
  (d) T4Joint Incentives ProgramK.–(1) Pursuant to subsection (b)(4), the two Secretaries shall carry out a program to identify, provide incentives to, implement, fund, and evaluate creative coordination and sharing initiatives at the facility, intraregional, and nationwide levels. The program shall be administered by the Committee established in subsection (c), under procedures jointly prescribed by the two Secretaries.
  (2) To facilitate the incentive program, effective October 1, 2003, there is established in the Treasury a fund to be known as the ””DOD–VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund““. Each Secretary shall annually contribute to the fund a minimum of $15,000,000 from the funds appropriated to that Secretary“s Department. Such funds shall remain available until expended.
  (3)    (A) For each fiscal year during which the program under this subsection is in effect, the Comptroller General shall conduct a review of the implementation and effectiveness of the incentives program under this subsection. Upon completion of each such annual review, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans“ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the results of that review. Each such report shall be submitted not later than February 28 of the year following the fiscal year covered by the report. In addition, the Comptroller General shall conduct such a review during the first five months of fiscal year 2004 and, not later than February 28, 2004, shall submit to those committees a report on the implementation and effectiveness of the incentives program under this subsection to that date.
    (B) Each report under this paragraph shall describe activities carried out under the program under this subsection during the preceding fiscal year (or, in the case of the first such report, to the date of the submission of the report). Each report shall include at least the following:
      (i) An analysis of the initiatives funded by the Committee, and the funds so expended by such initiatives, from the DOD–VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, including the purposes and effects of those initiatives on improving access to care by beneficiaries, improvements in the quality of care received by those beneficiaries, and efficiencies gained in delivering services to those beneficiaries.
      (ii) Other matters of interest, including recommendations from the Comptroller General for legislative improvements to the program.
  (4) The program under this subsection shall terminate on September 30, 2007.
  (e) T4Guidelines and Policies for Implementation of Coordination and Sharing Recommendations, Contracts, and AgreementsK.–(1) To implement the recommendations made by the Committee under subsection (c)(2), as well as to carry out other health care contracts and agreements for coordination and sharing initiatives as they consider appropriate, the two Secretaries shall jointly issue guidelines and policy directives. Such guidelines and policies shall provide for coordination and sharing that–
    (A) is consistent with the health care responsibilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs under this title and with the health care responsibilities of the Department of Defense under chapter 55 of title 10;
    (B) will not adversely affect the range of services, the quality of care, or the established priorities for care provided by either Department; and
    (C) will not reduce capacities in certain specialized programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs that the Secretary is required to maintain in accordance with section 1706(b) of this title.
  (2) To facilitate the sharing and coordination of health care services between the two Departments, the two Secretaries shall jointly develop and implement guidelines for a standardized, uniform payment and reimbursement schedule for those services. Such schedule shall be implemented no later than October 1, 2003, and shall be revised periodically as necessary. The two Secretaries, following implementation of the schedule, may on a case-by-case basis waive elements of the schedule if they jointly agree that such a waiver is in the best interests of both Departments.
  (3)    (A) The guidelines established under paragraph (1) shall authorize the heads of individual Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities and service regions to enter into health care resources coordination and sharing agreements.
    (B) Under any such agreement, an individual who is a primary beneficiary of one Department may be provided health care, as provided in the agreement, at a facility or in the service region of the other Department that is a party to the sharing agreement.
    (C) Each such agreement shall identify the health care resources to be shared.
    (D) Each such agreement shall provide, and shall specify procedures designed to ensure, that the availability of direct health care to individuals who are not primary beneficiaries of the providing Department is (i) on a referral basis from the facility or service region of the other Department, and (ii) does not (as determined by the head of the providing facility or region) adversely affect the range of services, the quality of care, or the established priorities for care provided to the primary beneficiaries of the providing Department.
    (E) Each such agreement shall provide that a providing Department or service region shall be reimbursed for the cost of the health care resources provided under the agreement and that the rate of such reimbursement shall be as determined in accordance with paragraph (2).
    (F) Each proposal for an agreement under this paragraph shall be effective (i) on the 46th day after the receipt of such proposal by the Committee, unless earlier disapproved, or (ii) if earlier approved by the Committee, on the date of such approval.
    (G) Any funds received through such a uniform payment and reimbursement schedule shall be credited to funds that have been allotted to the facility of either Department that provided the care or services, or is due the funds from, any such agreement.
  (f) T4Annual Joint ReportK.–(1) At the time the President“s budget is transmitted to Congress in any year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the two Secretaries shall submit to Congress a joint report on health care coordination and sharing activities under this section during the fiscal year that ended during the previous calendar year.
  (2) Each report under this section shall include the following:
    (A) The guidelines prescribed under subsection (e) (and any revision of such guidelines).
    (B) The assessment of further opportunities identified under subparagraph (C) of subsection (c)(5) for the sharing of health-care resources between the two Departments.
    (C) Any recommendation made under subsection (c)(4) during such fiscal year.
    (D) A review of the sharing agreements entered into under subsection (e) and a summary of activities under such agreements during such fiscal year and a description of the results of such agreements in improving access to, and the quality and cost effectiveness of, the health care provided by the Veterans Health Administration and the Military Health System to the beneficiaries of both Departments.
    (E) A summary of other planning and activities involving either Department in connection with promoting the coordination and sharing of Federal health-care resources during the preceding fiscal year.
    (F) Such recommendations for legislation as the two Secretaries consider appropriate to facilitate the sharing of health-care resources between the two Departments.
  (3) In addition to the matters specified in paragraph (2), the two Secretaries shall include in the annual report under this subsection an overall status report of the progress of health resources sharing between the two Departments as a consequence of subtitle C of title VII of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 and of other sharing initiatives taken during the period covered by the report. Such status report shall indicate the status of such sharing and shall include appropriate data as well as analyses of that data. The annual report shall include the following:
    (A) Enumerations and explanations of major policy decisions reached by the two Secretaries during the period covered by the report period with respect to sharing between the two Departments.
    (B) A description of progress made in new ventures or particular areas of sharing and coordination that would be of policy interest to Congress consistent with the intent of such subtitle.
    (C) A description of enhancements of access to care of beneficiaries of both Departments that came about as a result of new sharing approaches brought about by such subtitle.
    (D) A description of proposals for which funds are provided through the joint incentives program under subsection (d), together with a description of their results or status at the time of the report, including access improvements, savings, and quality-of-care enhancements they brought about, and a description of any additional use of funds made available under subsection (d).
  (4) In addition to the matters specified in paragraphs (2) and (3), the two Secretaries shall include in the annual report under this subsection for each year through 2008 the following:
    (A) A description of the measures taken, or planned to be taken, to implement the health resources sharing project under section 722 of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 and any cost savings anticipated, or cost sharing achieved, at facilities participating in the project, including information on improvements in access to care, quality, and timeliness, as well as impediments encountered and legislative recommendations to ameliorate such impediments.
    (B) A description of the use of the waiver authority provided by section 722(d)(1) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, including–
      (i) a statement of the numbers and types of requests for waivers under that section of administrative policies that have been made during the period covered by the report and, for each such request, an explanation of the content of each request, the intended purpose or result of the requested waiver, and the disposition of each request; and
      (ii) descriptions of any new administrative policies that enhance the success of the project.
  (5) In addition to the matters specified in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), the two Secretaries shall include in the annual report under this subsection for each year through 2009 a report on the pilot program for graduate medical education under section 725 of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, including activities under the program during the preceding year and each Secretary“s assessment of the efficacy of providing education and training under that program.
  (g) T4DefinitionsK.–For the purposes of this section:
    (1) The term ””beneficiary““ means a person who is a primary beneficiary of the Department of Veterans Affairs or of the Department of Defense.
    (2) The term ””direct health care““ means health care provided to a beneficiary in a medical facility operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense.
    (3) The term ””head of a medical facility““ (A) with respect to a medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs, means the director of the facility, and (B) with respect to a medical facility of the Department of Defense, means the medical or dental officer in charge or the contract surgeon in charge.
    (4) The term ””health-care resource““ includes hospital care, medical services, and rehabilitative services, as those terms are defined in paragraphs (5), (6), and (8), respectively, of section 1701 of this title, services under sections 1782 and 1783 of this title, any other health-care service, and any health-care support or administrative resource.
    (5) The term ””primary beneficiary““ (A) with respect to the Department means a person who is eligible under this title (other than under section 1782, 1783, or 1784 or subsection (d) of this section) or any other provision of law for care or services in Department medical facilities, and (B) with respect to the Department of Defense, means a member or former member of the Armed Forces who is eligible for care under section 1074 of title 10.
    (6) The term ””providing Department““ means the Department of Veterans Affairs, in the case of care or services furnished by a facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Department of Defense, in the case of care or services furnished by a facility of the Department of Defense.
    (7) The term ””service region““ means a geographic service area of the Veterans Health Administration, in the case of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and a service region, in the case of the Department of Defense.
