  (a) T4Readiness of Department Medical CentersK.–(1) The Secretary shall take appropriate actions to provide for the readiness of Department medical centers to protect the patients and staff of such centers from a public health emergency (as defined in section 2801 of the Public Health Service Act) or otherwise to respond to such such \1\N an emergency so as to enable such centers to fulfill their obligations as part of the Federal response to such emergencies.
  (2) Actions under paragraph (1) shall include–
    (A) the provision of decontamination equipment and personal protection equipment at Department medical centers;
    (B) the provision of training in the use of such equipment to staff of such centers;
    (C) organizing, training, and equipping the staff of such centers to support the activities carried out by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 2801 of the Public Health Service Act in the event of a public health emergency and incidents covered by the National Response Plan developed pursuant to section 502(6) \2\N of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, or any successor plan; and
    (D) providing medical logistical support to the National Disaster Medical System and the Secretary of Health and Human Services as necessary, on a reimbursable basis, and in coordination with other designated Federal agencies.
  (b) T4Security at Department Medical and Research FacilitiesK.–(1) The Secretary shall take appropriate actions to provide for the security of Department medical centers and research facilities, including staff and patients at such centers and facilities.
  (2) In taking actions under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take into account the results of the evaluation of the security needs at Department medical centers and research facilities required by section 154(b)(1) of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–188; 116 Stat. 631), including the results of such evaluation relating to the following needs:
    (A) Needs for the protection of patients and medical staff during emergencies, including a chemical or biological attack or other terrorist attack.
    (B) Needs, if any, for screening personnel engaged in research relating to biological pathogens or agents, including work associated with such research.
    (C) Needs for securing laboratories or other facilities engaged in research relating to biological pathogens or agents.
  (c) T4Tracking of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies and EquipmentK.–The Secretary shall develop and maintain a centralized system for tracking the current location and availability of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, and medical equipment throughout the Department health care system in order to permit the ready identification and utilization of such pharmaceuticals, supplies, and equipment for a variety of purposes, including response to a public health emergency. The Secretary shall, through existing medical procurement contracts, and on a reimbursable basis, make available as necessary, medical supplies, equipment, and pharmaceuticals in response to a public health emergency in support of the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
  (d) T4TrainingK.–The Secretary shall ensure that the Department medical centers, in consultation with the accredited medical school affiliates of such medical centers, implement curricula to train resident physicians and health care personnel in medical matters relating to public health emergencies or attacks from an incendiary or other explosive weapon consistent with section 319F(a) of the Public Health Service Act.
  (e) T4Participation in National Disaster Medical SystemK.–(1) The Secretary shall establish and maintain a training program to facilitate the participation of the staff of Department medical centers, and of the community partners of such centers, in the National Disaster Medical System established pursuant to section 2812 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh–11(b)).\3\N
  (2) The Secretary shall establish and maintain the training program under paragraph (1) in accordance with the recommendations of the working group on the prevention, preparedness, and response to public health emergencies established under section 319F of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6(a)).\4\N
  (3) The Secretary shall establish and maintain the training program under paragraph (1) in consultation with the following:
    (A) The Secretary of Defense.
    (B) The Secretary of Health and Human Services.
    (C) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
  (f) T4Mental Health CounselingK.–(1) With respect to activities conducted by personnel serving at Department medical centers, the Secretary shall develop and maintain various strategies for providing mental health counseling and assistance, including counseling and assistance for post-traumatic stress disorder, following a bioterrorist attack or other public health emergency to the following persons:
    (A) Veterans.
    (B) Local and community emergency response providers.
    (C) Active duty military personnel.
    (D) Individuals seeking care at Department medical centers.
  (2) The strategies under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
    (A) Training and certification of providers of mental health counseling and assistance.
    (B) Mechanisms for coordinating the provision of mental health counseling and assistance to emergency response providers referred to in paragraph (1).
  (3) The Secretary shall develop and maintain the strategies under paragraph (1) in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the American Red Cross, and the working group referred to in subsection (e)(2).
  (g) T4Authorization of AppropriationsK.–There are authorized to be appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011.
