  (a)    (1) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the purposes of this subchapter.
    (2) In those regulations, the Secretary shall prescribe for each State the number of nursing home and domiciliary beds for which assistance under this subchapter may be furnished. Such regulations shall be based on projected demand for such care 10 years after the date of the enactment of the Veterans Millennium Health Care and Benefits Act by veterans who at such time are 65 years of age or older and who reside in that State. In determining such projected demand, the Secretary shall take into account travel distances for veterans and their families.
    (3)      (A) In those regulations, the Secretary shall establish criteria under which the Secretary shall determine, with respect to an application for assistance under this subchapter for a project described in subparagraph (B) which is from a State that has a need for additional beds as determined under subsections (a)(2) and (d)(1), whether the need for such beds is most aptly characterized as great, significant, or limited. Such criteria shall take into account the availability of beds already operated by the Secretary and other providers which appropriately serve the needs which the State proposes to meet with its application.
      (B) This paragraph applies to a project for the construction or acquisition of a new State home facility, a project to increase the number of beds available at a State home facility, and a project to replace beds at a State home facility.
    (4) The Secretary shall review and, as necessary, revise regulations prescribed under paragraphs (2) and (3) not less often than every four years.
  (b) The Secretary shall prescribe the following by regulation:
    (1) General standards of construction, repair, and equipment for facilities constructed or acquired with assistance received under this subchapter.
    (2) General standards for the furnishing of care in facilities which are constructed or acquired with assistance received under this subchapter, which standards shall be no less stringent than those standards prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 1720(b) of this title.
  (c) The Secretary may inspect any State facility constructed or acquired with assistance received under this subchapter at such times as the Secretary deems necessary to insure that such facility meets the standards prescribed under subsection (b)(2).
  (d)    (1) In prescribing regulations to carry out this subchapter, the Secretary shall provide that in the case of a State that seeks assistance under this subchapter for a project described in subsection (a)(3)(B), the determination of the unmet need for beds for State homes in that State shall be reduced by the number of beds in all previous applications submitted by that State under this subchapter, including beds which have not been recognized by the Secretary under section 1741 of this title.
    (2)      (A) Financial assistance under this subchapter for a renovation project may only be provided for a project for which the total cost of construction is in excess of $400,000 (as adjusted from time-to-time in such regulations to reflect changes in costs of construction).
      (B) For purposes of this paragraph, a renovation project is a project to remodel or alter existing buildings for which financial assistance under this subchapter may be provided and does not include maintenance and repair work which is the responsibility of the State.
