  (a) Any State desiring to receive assistance for a project for construction of State home facilities (or acquisition of a facility to be used as a State home facility) must submit to the Secretary an application. Such application shall set forth the following:
    (1) The amount of the grant requested with respect to such project which may not exceed 65 percent of the estimated cost of construction (or of the estimated cost of facility acquisition and construction) of such project.
    (2) A description of the site for such project.
    (3) Plans and specifications for such project in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 8134(a)(2) of this title.
    (4) Reasonable assurance that upon completion of such project the facilities will be used principally to furnish to veterans the level of care for which such application is made and that not more than 25 percent of the bed occupancy at any one time will consist of patients who are not receiving such level of care as veterans.
    (5) Reasonable assurance that title to such site is or will be vested solely in the applicant, a State home, or another agency or instrumentality of the State.
    (6) Reasonable assurance that adequate financial support will be available for the construction of the project (or for facility acquisition and construction of the project) by July 1 of the fiscal year for which the application is approved and for its maintenance and operation when complete.
    (7) Reasonable assurance that the State will make such reports in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may from time to time reasonably require, and give the Secretary, upon demand, access to the records upon which such information is based.
    (8) Reasonable assurance that the rates of pay for laborers and mechanics engaged in construction of the project will be not less than the prevailing local wage rates for similar work as determined in accordance with the Act of March 3, 1931 (40 U.S.C. 276a–276a–5) (known as the Davis-Bacon Act).
    (9) In the case of a project for acquisition of a facility, reasonable assurance that the estimated total cost of acquisition of the facility and of any expansion, remodeling, and alteration of the acquired facility will not be greater than the estimated cost of construction of an equivalent new facility.
  (b)    (1) Any State seeking to receive assistance under this subchapter for a project that would involve construction or acquisition of either nursing home or domiciliary facilities shall include with its application under subsection (a) the following:
      (A) Documentation (i) that the site for the project is in reasonable proximity to a sufficient concentration and population of veterans who are 65 years of age and older, and (ii) that there is a reasonable basis to conclude that the facilities when complete will be fully occupied.
      (B) A financial plan for the first three years of operation of such facilities.
      (C) A five-year capital plan for the State home program for that State.
    (2) Failure to provide adequate documentation under paragraph (1)(A) or to provide an adequate financial plan under paragraph (1)(B) shall be a basis for disapproving the application.
  (c)    (1) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (a) for financial assistance under this subchapter, the Secretary–
      (A) shall determine whether the application meets the requirements of this section and of the regulations prescribed under section 8134 of this title;
      (B) shall notify the State submitting the application whether the application conforms with those requirements and, if it does not, of the actions necessary to bring the application into conformance with those requirements; and
      (C) shall determine the priority of the project described in the application in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.
    (2) Subject to paragraphs (3) and (5)(C) of this subsection, the Secretary shall accord priority to applications in the following order:
      (A) An application from a State that has made sufficient funds available for the project for which the grant is requested so that such project may proceed upon approval of the grant without further action required by the State to make such funds available for such purpose.
      (B) An application from a State for a project at an existing facility to remedy a condition or conditions that have been cited by an accrediting institution, by the Secretary, or by a local licensing or approving body of the State as being threatening to the lives or safety of the patients in the facility.
      (C) An application from a State that has not previously applied for award of a grant under this subchapter for construction or acquisition of a State nursing home.
      (D) An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that the Secretary determines, in accordance with regulations under this subchapter, has a great need for the beds to be established at such home or facility.
      (E) An application from a State for renovations to a State home facility other than renovations described in subparagraph (B).
      (F) An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that the Secretary determines, in accordance with regulations under this subchapter, has a significant need for the beds to be established at such home or facility.
      (G) An application that meets other criteria as the Secretary determines appropriate and has established in regulations.
      (H) An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that the Secretary determines, in accordance with regulations under this subchapter, has a limited need for the beds to be established at such home or facility.
    (3) In according priorities to projects under paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Secretary–
      (A) may not accord any priority to a project for the construction or acquisition of a hospital; and
      (B) may not accord any priority to a project which would expand a State“s capacity to furnish hospital care in a State home.
    (4) The Secretary shall establish a list of approved projects (including projects that have been conditionally approved under paragraph (6) of this subsection), in the order of their priority, as of August 15 of each year. The Secretary shall award grants in the order of their priority on the list during the fiscal year beginning on October 1 of the calendar year in which the list was made.
    (5)      (A) The Secretary shall defer approval of an application that otherwise meets the requirements of this section if the State submitting the application does not, by the July 1 deadline (as defined in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph), demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the State has provided adequate financial support for construction of the project.
      (B) In a case in which approval of an application is deferred under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the Secretary shall select for award of a grant or grants under this subsection an application or applications which would not have been approved during the fiscal year but for the deferral and to which the Secretary accords the highest priority under paragraph (2) of this subsection.
      (C) An application deferred in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph shall be accorded priority in any subsequent fiscal year ahead of applications that had not been approved before the first day of the fiscal year in which the deferred application was first approved.
      (D) For the purposes of this paragraph, the term ””July 1 deadline““ means July 1 of the fiscal year in which the State is notified by the Secretary of the availability of funding for a grant for such project.
    (6)      (A) The Secretary may conditionally approve a project under this section, conditionally award a grant for the project, and obligate funds for the grant if the Secretary determines that the application for the grant is sufficiently complete to warrant awarding the grant and that, based on assurances provided by the State submitting the application, the State will complete the application and meet all the requirements referred to in paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection by the date, not later than 180 days after the date of the conditional approval, specified by the Secretary.
      (B) If a State does not complete the application and meet all the requirements referred to in such paragraph by the date specified by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the Secretary shall rescind the conditional approval and award under such subparagraph and deobligate the funds previously obligated in connection with the application. In the event the Secretary rescinds conditional approval of a project under this subparagraph, the Secretary may not further obligate funds for the project during the fiscal year in which the Secretary rescinds such approval.
    (7)      (A) Subject to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, the Secretary may increase the amount of any grant awarded to any State for a project under this section by an amount by which the Secretary determines that the estimated cost of the construction or acquisition has increased from the estimated cost on which the Secretary based the determination to award the grant, without regard to the position of such project on the list established under paragraph (4) of this subsection, if the Secretary determines that the grant was awarded before the State entered into a contract for the construction or acquisition provided for in such project.
      (B) A grant may not be increased under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph by more than 10 percent of the amount of the grant initially awarded for such project, and the amount of such grant, as increased, may not exceed 65 percent of the cost of the project.
  (d) No application submitted to the Secretary under this section shall be disapproved until the Secretary has afforded the applicant notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
  (e) The amount of a grant under this subchapter shall be paid to the applicant or, if designated by the applicant, the State home for which such project is being carried out or any other agency or instrumentality of the applicant. Such amount shall be paid, in advance or by way of reimbursement, and in such installments consistent with the progress of the project as the Secretary may determine and certify for payment to the Secretary of the Treasury. Funds paid under this section for an approved project shall be used solely for carrying out such project as so approved.
  (f) Any amendment of any application, whether or not approved, shall be subject to approval in the same manner as an original application.
