  (a) If the Secretary proposes to designate a property to be leased under an enhanced-use lease, the Secretary shall conduct a public hearing before making the designation. The hearing shall be conducted in the community in which the property is located. At the hearing, the Secretary shall receive the views of veterans service organizations and other interested parties regarding the proposed lease of the property and the possible effects of the uses to be made of the property under a lease of the general character then contemplated. The possible effects to be addressed at the hearing shall include effects on–
    (1) local commerce and other aspects of the local community;
    (2) programs administered by the Department; and
    (3) services to veterans in the community.
  (b) Before conducting such a hearing, the Secretary shall provide reasonable notice of the proposed designation and of the hearing. The notice shall include the following:
    (1) The time and place of the hearing.
    (2) Identification of the property proposed to be leased.
    (3) A description of the proposed uses of the property under the lease.
    (4) A description of how the uses to be made of the property under a lease of the general character then contemplated–
      (A) would–
        (i) contribute in a cost-effective manner to the mission of the Department;
        (ii) not be inconsistent with the mission of the Department;
        (iii) not adversely affect the mission of the Department; and
        (iv) affect services to veterans; or
      (B) would result in a demonstrable improvement of services to eligible veterans in the geographic service-delivery area within which the property is located.
    (5) A description of how those uses would affect services to veterans.
  (c)    (1) If after a hearing under subsection (a) the Secretary intends to designate the property involved, the Secretary shall notify the congressional veterans“ affairs committees of the Secretary“s intention to so designate the property and shall publish a notice of such intention in the Federal Register.
    (2) The Secretary may not enter into an enhanced-use lease until the end of a 60-day period of continuous session of Congress following the date of the submission of notice under paragraph (1). For purposes of the preceding sentence, continuity of a session of Congress is broken only by an adjournment sine die, and there shall be excluded from the computation of such 60-day period any day during which either House of Congress is not in session during an adjournment of more than three days to a day certain.
    (3) Each notice under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
      (A) An identification of the property involved.
      (B) An explanation of the background of, rationale for, and economic factors in support of, the proposed lease.
      (C) A summary of the views expressed by interested parties at the public hearing conducted in connection with the proposed designation, together with a summary of the Secretary“s evaluation of those views.
      (D) A general description of the proposed lease.
      (E) A description of how the proposed lease–
        (i) would–
          (I) contribute in a cost-effective manner to the mission of the Department;
          (II) not be inconsistent with the mission of the Department;
          (III) not adversely affect the mission of the Department; and
          (IV) affect services to veterans; or
        (ii) would result in a demonstrable improvement of services to eligible veterans in the geographic service-delivery area within which the property is located.
      (F) A description of how the proposed lease would affect services to veterans.
    (4) Not less than 30 days before entering into an enhanced-use lease, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional veterans“ affairs committees a report on the proposed lease. The report shall include–
      (A) updated information with respect to the matters described in paragraph (3);
      (B) a summary of a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed lease;
      (C) a description of the provisions of the proposed lease; and
      (D) a notice of designation with respect to the property.
