  (a) Cooperation with States, etc.
     The Commission is authorized to cooperate with American citizens, States, municipalities, or associations desiring to erect war memorials outside the continental limits of the United States in such manner as may be determined by the Commission: T3ProvidedK, That no assistance in erecting any such memorial shall be given by any administrative agency of the United States unless the plan has been approved in accordance with the provisions of sections 121, 122b to 125, 127, 128, 131, 132, and 138 to 138b of this title.
  (b) Control, administration, and maintenance of war memorials by Commission
    (1) The Commission is authorized, in its discretion, to assume responsibility for the control, administration, and maintenance of any war memorial erected before, on, or after the effective date of this subsection outside the United States by an American citizen, a State, a political subdivision of a State, any other non-Federal governmental agency, foreign agency, or private association to commemorate the services of any of the American Armed Forces in hostilities occurring since April 6, 1917, if (A) the memorial is not erected on the territory of the former enemy concerned, and (B) the sponsors of the memorial consent to the Commission assuming such responsibilities and transfer to the Commission all their right, title, and interest in the memorial. If reasonable effort fails to locate the sponsors of a memorial, the Commission may assume responsibility therefor under this subsection by agreement with the appropriate foreign authorities. A decision of the Commission to assume responsibility for any war memorial under this subsection is final.
    (2)      (A) Any funds accumulated by the sponsors for the maintenance and repair of a war memorial for which the Commission assumes responsibility under this subsection may be transferred to the Commission for use in carrying out the purpose of sections 121, 122b to 125, 127, 128, 131, 132, and 138 to 138b of this title. Any such funds so transferred shall be deposited by the Commission in the manner provided for in section 128 of this title.
      (B) In assuming responsibility for a war memorial under paragraph (1), the Commission may enter into arrangements with the sponsors of the memorial to provide for the repair or long-term maintenance of the memorial. Any funds transferred to the Commission for the purpose of this subparagraph shall, in lieu of subparagraph (A), be deposited by the Commission in the fund established by paragraph (3).
    (3)      (A) There is established in the Treasury a fund which shall be available to the Commission for expenses for the maintenance and repair of memorials with respect to which the Commission enters into arrangements under paragraph (2)(B). The fund shall consist of (i) amounts deposited, and interest and proceeds credited, under subparagraph (B), and (ii) obligations obtained under subparagraph (C).
      (B) The Commission shall deposit in the fund such amounts from private contributions as may be accepted under paragraph (2)(B). The Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the fund the interest on, and the proceeds from sale or redemption of, obligations held in the fund.
      (C) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest any portion of the fund that, as determined by the Commission, is not required to meet current expenses. Each investment shall be made in an interest bearing obligation of the United States or an obligation guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States that, as determined by the Commission, has a maturity suitable for the fund.
      (D) The Commission shall separately account for all moneys deposited in and expended from the fund with respect to each war memorial for which an arrangement for the repair or long-term maintenance of the memorial is entered to under paragraph (2)(B).
  (c) Demolition of war memorials erected on foreign soils and other functions of Commission
     The Commission is authorized to take necessary measures to demolish any war memorial erected on foreign soil by an American citizen, a State, a political subdivision of a State, any other non-Federal governmental agency, foreign agency, or private association and to dispose of the site of such memorial in such manner as it deems proper, if–
    (1) the appropriate foreign authorities agree to such demolition; and
    (2) the sponsors of the memorial consent to such demolition; or
    (3) the memorial has fallen into disrepair and a reasonable effort on the part of the Commission has failed–
      (A) to persuade the sponsors to maintain the memorial at a standard acceptable to the Commission, or
      (B) to locate the sponsors.
  (d) ””Sponsors““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””sponsors““ includes the legal successors to the sponsor.
