  (a) Operation by ABMC
     Subject to subsection (b) of this section and to the agreement referred to in such subsection, the American Battle Monuments Commission shall restore, operate, and maintain the Pacific War Memorial and other historical and memorial sites on Corregidor in the Republic of the Philippines.
  (b) Condition
     The Commission may carry out this section only after an agreement has been entered into between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States with respect to the restoration, operation, and maintenance of the Memorial and other historical and memorial sites referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) Personnel
     The Commission may employ personnel as may be necessary to carry out this section.
  (d) Use of other agencies
     Departments, agencies, and other instrumentalities of the United States are authorized to assist the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, in carrying out this section.
  (e) Funding
     The American Battle Monuments Commission shall carry out this section with private funds except to the extent funds are appropriated pursuant to subsection (h) of this section.
  (f) Authority to solicit funds
     For the purpose of carrying out this section, the Commission may solicit and accept private contributions and shall deposit such contributions in the fund established by subsection (g) of this section.
  (g) Fund
    (1) There is hereby established in the Treasury a fund which shall be available to the American Battle Monuments Commission only for carrying out this section. The fund shall consist of–
      (A) amounts deposited into, and interest and proceeds credited to, the fund under paragraph (2); and
      (B) obligations obtained under paragraph (3).
    (2) The Chairman of the Commission shall deposit into the fund the amounts that are accepted under subsection (f) of this section. The Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the fund the interest on, and the proceeds from sale or redemption of, obligations held in the fund.
    (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest any portion of the fund that, as determined by the Chairman of the Commission, is not required to meet current expenses. Each investment shall be made in an interest-bearing obligation of the United States or an obligation guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States that, as determined by the Chairman of the Commission, has a maturity suitable for the fund.
    (4) Amounts in the fund that are in excess of the costs of carrying out this section, as determined by the Chairman of the Commission, shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts to reimburse the United States for funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (h) of this section.
  (h) Authorization of funding
     There are hereby authorized to be appropriated–
    (1) $6,000,000 for site preparation, design, planning, construction, and associated administrative costs for the restoration of the Memorial and other historical and memorial sites referred to in subsection (a) of this section; and
    (2) such sums as may be necessary for the operation and maintenance of such Memorial and other historical and memorial sites.
