  (a) Membership
     The persons listed in section 1301 of this title are the present members of United Service Organizations, Incorporated, a corporation organized under the Not-for-Profit Corporation Law of the State of New York (hereinafter ””the New York Corporation““). Upon the enactment of this charter, and for not more than one year thereafter, the said persons shall be the members of the corporation hereunder. They shall adopt bylaws and perform all other acts necessary to complete the organization of the corporation. Thereafter, the members of the corporation shall consist of nine persons designated by the President of the United States, and such representatives of the organizations listed in section 1302 of this title and of the public at large as shall be specified in the bylaws. The rights, privileges, and designations of the classes of members shall also be as specified in the bylaws.
  (b) Board of governors
     The management of the corporation shall be entrusted to a board of governors, which shall be responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation and for the control of its affairs and property. Upon the enactment of this charter and for not more than one year thereafter, the membership of the initial board of governors of the corporation created hereunder shall consist of the present members of the board of governors of the New York corporation. Thereafter, the board of governors shall be elected by the members of the corporation for such terms and in such classes as shall be specified in the bylaws, and shall include the following persons:
    (1) Six members appointed by the President of the United States.
    (2) The Secretary of Defense, or his designee.
    (3) Such representatives of the organizations listed in section 1302 of this title and of the public at large as shall be specified in the bylaws.
  (c) Other governing bodies
     The corporation shall have such other governing bodies and committees as may be provided for in its bylaws.
  (d) Officers
     The office of honorary chairman of the corporation shall be tendered to the President of the United States. Upon acceptance of such office, the honorary chairman shall be invited to preside at such meetings of the corporation as he may deem appropriate and convenient. The corporation shall have such other officers as may be designated in its bylaws.
