  (a) Establishment; purpose; transfer of funds
     There is hereby established in the Treasury an account to be known as the ””Foreign Currency Fluctuations, American Battle Monuments Commission, Account““. The account shall be used to provide funds, in addition to funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of the American Battle Monuments Commission, to pay the costs of such salaries and expenses that exceed the amount appropriated therefor as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries occurring after a budget request for the Commission is submitted to Congress. The account may not be used for any other purpose. Funds in the account may be transferred to funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of the Commission.
  (b) Merger and availability of transferred funds; increase in permissible obligations of funds
     Funds transferred under subsection (a) of this section shall be merged with and available for the same time period as the appropriation to which they are applied. A provision of law limiting the amount of funds the Commission may obligate in any fiscal year shall be increased to the extent necessary to reflect fluctuations in exchange rates from those used in preparing the budget submission.
  (c) Recording of obligations and fluctuations in exchange rates
     An obligation of the Commission payable in the currency of a foreign country may be recorded as an obligation based upon exchange rates used in preparing a budget submission. A change reflecting fluctuations in exchange rates may be recorded as a disbursement is made.
  (d) Return of transferred funds
     Funds transferred from the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, American Battle Monuments Commission, Account may be transferred back to that account–
    (1) if the funds are not needed to pay obligations incurred because of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries in the appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred; or
    (2) because of subsequent favorable fluctuations in the rates or because other funds are, or become, available to pay such obligations.
  (e) Time of return
     A transfer back to the account under subsection (d) of this section may not be made after the end of the second fiscal year after the fiscal year in which the appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred is available for obligation.
  (f) Unobligated balances; merger and availability
     Not later than the end of the second fiscal year following the fiscal year for which appropriations for salaries and expenses have been made available to the Commission, unobligated balances of such appropriation provided for a fiscal year may be transferred into the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, American Battle Monuments Commission, Account, to be merged with and available for the same period and purposes as that account.
  (g) Annual report on transferred funds
     The Commission shall submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress each year a report on funds transferred under this section.
