  (a) Written complaint; exhaustion of remedies requirement; hearing; determination by Corporation; probation; revocation of recognition
    (1) Any amateur sports organization or person which belongs to or is eligible to belong to a national governing body may seek to compel such national governing body to comply with the requirements of sections 391(b) and 392 of this title by filing a written complaint with the Corporation. Such organization or person may take such action only after having exhausted all available remedies within such national governing body for correcting deficiencies, unless it can be shown by clear and convincing evidence that those remedies would have resulted in unnecessary delay. The Corporation shall establish procedures for the filing and disposition of complaints received under this subsection. A copy of the complaint shall also be served on the applicable national governing body.
    (2) Within 30 days after the filing of the complaint, the Corporation shall determine whether the organization has exhausted its remedies within the applicable national governing body, as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection. If the Corporation determines that any such remedies have not been exhausted, it may direct that such remedies be pursued before the Corporation will further consider the complaint.
    (3)      (A) Within 90 days after the filing of a complaint under paragraph (1) of this subsection, if the Corporation determines that all such remedies have been exhausted, it shall hold a hearing to receive testimony for the purpose of determining if such national governing body is in compliance with the requirements of sections 391(b) and 392 of this title.
      (B) If the Corporation determines, as a result of the hearings conducted pursuant to this subsection, that such national governing body is in compliance with the requirements of sections 391(b) and 392 of this title, it shall so notify the complainant and such national governing body.
      (C) If the Corporation determines, as a result of hearings conducted pursuant to this subsection, that such national governing body is not in compliance with the requirements of sections 391(b) and 392 of this title, it shall–
        (i) place such national governing body on probation for a specified period of time, not to exceed 180 days, which it considers necessary to enable such national governing body to comply with such requirements, or
        (ii) revoke the recognition of such national governing body.
      (D) If the Corporation places a national governing body on probation pursuant to this paragraph, it may extend the probationary period if the national governing body has proven by clear and convincing evidence that, through no fault of its own, it needs additional time to comply with such requirements. If, at the end of the period allowed by the Corporation, the national governing body has not complied with such requirements, the Corporation shall revoke the recognition of such national governing body.
  (b) Replacement of incumbent national governing body
  (b)    (1) Any amateur sports organization may seek to replace an incumbent as the national governing body for a particular sport by filing with the Corporation a written application for such recognition. Such application shall be filed (A) within the 1-year period after the final day of any Olympic Games, in the case of a sport for which competition is held in the Olympic Games or in both the Olympic and Pan-American Games; or (B) within the 1-year period after the final day of any Pan-American Games, in the case of a sport for which competition is held in the Pan-American Games and not in the Olympic Games. If two or more organizations file applications for the same sport, such applications shall be considered in a single proceeding.
    (2) Any application filed under this subsection shall be filed with the Corporation by registered mail. The Corporation shall establish procedures for the filing and disposition of applications received under this subsection. A copy of any such application for recognition shall also be served on the applicable national governing body. The Corporation shall inform the applicant for recognition that its application has been received.
    (3) Within 180 days after receipt of an application filed under this subsection, the Corporation shall conduct a formal hearing to determine the merits of the application. The Corporation shall publish notice of the time and place of such hearing in a regular issue of its principal publication at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior to the date of the hearing. In the course of such hearing, the applicant and the national governing body shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present evidence supporting their respective positions. During such hearing, the applicant amateur sports organization must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that it meets the criteria for recognition as a national governing body under section 391(b) of this title, and that–
      (A) the national governing body does not meet the criteria of section 391(b) or 392 of this title; or
      (B) it more adequately meets the criteria of section 391(b) of this title, is capable of more adequately meeting the criteria of section 392 of this title, and provides or is capable of providing a more effective national program of competition, than the national governing body in the sport for which it seeks recognition.
    (4) Within 30 days of the close of the hearing required under this subsection, the Corporation shall–
      (A) uphold the right of the national governing body to continue as the national governing body for its sport;
      (B) revoke the recognition of the national governing body and declare a vacancy in the national governing body for that sport;
      (C) revoke the recognition of the national governing body and recognize the applicant as the national governing body; or
      (D) decide to place the national governing body on probation of not to exceed 180 days, pending the compliance of the national governing body, if such national governing body would have retained recognition except for a minor deficiency in one of the requirements of section 391(b) or 392 of this title.
         If the national governing body does not comply within the prescribed time period, the Corporation shall revoke the recognition of the national governing body and either recognize the applicant as the national governing body, or declare a vacancy in the national governing body for that sport.
    (5) Within 61 days after recognizing an amateur sports organization as a national governing body, in accordance with this subsection, the Corporation shall recommend and support in any appropriate manner such national governing body to the appropriate international sports federation as the representative of the United States for that sport.
  (c) Arbitration of Corporation determinations
  (c)    (1) The right to review by any party aggrieved by a determination of the Corporation under the requirements of this section or section 391(c) of this title shall be to any regional office of the American Arbitration Association. Such demand for arbitration shall be submitted within 30 days of the determination of the Corporation. Upon receipt of such a demand for arbitration, the Association shall serve notice on the parties to the arbitration and on the Corporation, and shall immediately proceed with arbitration according to the commercial rules of the Association in effect at the time of the filing of the demand, except that–
      (A) the arbitration panel shall consist of not less than three arbitrators, unless the parties to the proceeding mutually agree to a lesser number;
      (B) the arbitration hearing shall take place at a site selected by the Association, unless the parties to the proceeding mutually agree to the use of another site; and
      (C) the arbitration hearing shall be open to the public.
    (2) The arbitrators in any arbitration are empowered to settle any dispute arising under the provisions of this chapter prior to making a final award, if mutually agreed to by the parties to the proceeding and achieved in a manner not inconsistent with the constitution and bylaws of the Corporation.
    (3) Each contesting party may be represented by counsel or by any other duly authorized representative at the arbitration proceeding. The parties may offer any evidence which they desire and shall produce any additional evidence as the arbitrators believe necessary to an understanding and determination of the dispute. The arbitrators shall be the sole judges of the relevancy and materiality of the evidence offered. Conformity to legal rules of evidence shall not be necessary.
    (4) All decisions by the arbitrators shall be by majority vote unless the concurrence of all is expressly required by the contesting parties.
    (5) Final decision of the arbitrators shall be binding upon the involved parties, if such award is not inconsistent with the constitution and bylaws of the Corporation.
    (6) The hearings may be reopened, by the arbitrators upon their own motion or upon the motion of any contesting party, at any time before a final decision is made, except that, if any contesting party makes such a motion, all parties to the decision must agree to reopen the hearings if such reopening would result in the arbitrators“ decision being delayed beyond the specific period agreed upon at the beginning of the arbitration proceedings.
