   James Dean, of Freeport; Charles W. Ward, of Queens; William Scott, of Buffalo; and Charles Henderson, of New York City, all in the State of New York; William J. Stewart, Michael H. Norton, and Patrick Welch, of Boston; Edmund M. Wood, of Natick; and Lawrence Cotter, of Dorchester, all in the State of Massachusetts; Edward G. Hill, of Richmond, in the State of Indiana; John N. May, of Summitt, John G. Esler, of Saddle River; Patrick O“Mara, of Jersey City; William A. Manda, of South Orange, all in the State of New Jersey; Benjamin Durfee, William R. Smith, William F. Gude, and Henry Small, Junior, of Washington, in the District of Columbia; Willis N. Rudd, of Chicago; Emil Buettner, of Park Ridge; John C. Vaughan, of Chicago, all in the State of Illinois; Joseph A. Dirwanger, of Portland, in the State of Maine; Robert Craig, Edwin Lonsdale, W. Atlee Burpee, and John Burton, of Philadelphia; H. B. Beatty, of Oil City; and William Falconer, of Pittsburgh; all in the State of Pennsylvania; George M. Kellogg, of Pleasant Hill, in the State of Missouri; John T. D. Fulmer, of Des Moines, and J. C. Rennison, of Sioux City, in the State of Iowa; L. A. Berckmans, of Augusta, in the State of Georgia; H. Papworth, of New Orleans, in the State of Louisiana; Elmer D. Smith, of Adrian, and Harry Balsley, of Detroit, in the State of Michigan; F. A. Whelan, of Mount Vernon on the Potomac, in the State of Virginia; Adam Graham, of Cleveland, in the State of Ohio; William Fraser, of Baltimore, in the State of Maryland; John Spalding, of New London, and John N. Champion, of New Haven, in the State of Connecticut; and Charles W. Hoitt, of Nashua, in the State of New Hampshire, their associates and successors, are hereby created a body corporate and politic, within the District of Columbia, by the name of the Society of American Florists and Ornamental Horticulturists, for the education of the general public and of members of the florist industry in the subjects of, and for the scientific development of, floriculture and horticulture in all their branches. Said corporation is authorized to adopt a constitution and to make bylaws not inconsistent with law, to hold real and personal estate in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, so far only as may be necessary to its lawful ends, to an amount not exceeding $1,000,000, and such other estate as may be donated or bequeathed in any State or Territory: T3ProvidedK, That all property so held, and the proceeds thereof, shall be held and used solely for the purposes set forth in this chapter. Said corporation shall operate without profit and any earnings and/or surplus funds that may be created through any of its educational or scientific activities shall be available only for the further accomplishment of the corporation“s stated purposes. The principal office of the corporation shall be located within the District of Columbia, but the annual meetings may be held in such other places as the incorporators or their successors shall determine: T3ProvidedK, That this corporation shall not be permitted to occupy any park in the city of Washington.
