  (a) Issuance and loan
     For purposes of training and competition, the Corporation may issue or loan, with or without charges to recover administrative costs, caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 surplus rifles, caliber .22 and .30 ammunition, air rifles, targets, and other supplies and appliances necessary for activities related to the Civilian Marksmanship Program to the following:
    (1) Organizations affiliated with the Corporation that provide training in the use of firearms to youth.
    (2) The Boy Scouts of America.
    (3) 4–H Clubs.
    (4) Future Farmers of America.
    (5) Other youth-oriented organizations.
  (b) Sales
    (1) The Corporation may sell at fair market value caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 surplus rifles, caliber .22 and .30 ammunition, air rifles, repair parts, and accouterments to organizations affiliated with the Corporation that provide training in the use of firearms.
    (2) Subject to subsection (e) of this section, the Corporation may sell at fair market value caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 surplus rifles, ammunition, targets, repair parts and accouterments, and other supplies and appliances necessary for target practice to citizens of the United States over 18 years of age who are members of a gun club affiliated with the Corporation. In addition to any other requirement, the Corporation shall establish procedures to obtain a criminal records check of the person with appropriate Federal and State law enforcement agencies.
  (c) Limitations on sales
    (1) The Corporation may not offer for sale any repair part designed to convert any firearm to fire in a fully automatic mode.
    (2) The Corporation may not sell rifles, ammunition, or any other item available for sale to individuals under the Civilian Marksmanship Program to a person who has been convicted of a felony or a violation of section 922 of title 18.
  (d) Oversight and accountability
     The Corporation shall be responsible for ensuring adequate oversight and accountability of all firearms issued or loaned under this section. The Corporation shall prescribe procedures for the security of issued or loaned firearms in accordance with Federal, State, and local laws.
  (e) Applicability of other law
    (1) Subject to paragraph (2), sales under subsection (b)(2) of this section are subject to applicable Federal, State, and local laws.
    (2) Paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (5) of section 922(a) of title 18 do not apply to the shipment, transportation, receipt, transfer, sale, issuance, loan, or delivery by the Corporation of any item that the Corporation is authorized to issue, loan, sell, or receive under this chapter.
