  (a) Composition
     Upon the enactment of this chapter the membership of the initial board of directors of the corporation shall consist of the present members of the board of directors of the Big Brothers of America, Incorporated, the corporation described in section 896(a) of this title, or such of them as may then be living and are qualified members of said board of directors, to wit:
     Justice Tom Clark, Washington, D.C. (honorary);
     Honorable Stuart Garson, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (honorary);
     Honorable Luther W. Youngdahl, Washington, District of Columbia (honorary);
     Charles G. Berwind, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
     Henry J. Benisch, Brooklyn, New York;
     DeVere Bobier, Flint, Michigan;
     J. Carroll Brown, Lansing, Michigan;
     Fielding T. Childress, Saint Louis, Missouri;
     Guy de Puyjalon, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada;
     Robert E. Curry, New York City, New York;
     Jere Gillette, Detroit, Michigan;
     Benjamin van D. Hedges, New York City, New York;
     Honorable Thomas C. Hennings, Junior, Washington, District of Columbia;
     Doctor Kenneth D. Johnson, New York City, New York;
     Charles B. Levinson, Cincinnati, Ohio;
     Walter H. Levy, Providence, Rhode Island;
     Richard Loud, Boston, Massachusetts;
     George O. Ludcke, Junior, Minneapolis, Minnesota;
     Charles E. McMartin, Saginaw, Michigan;
     John McShain, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
     John E. Mangrum, Dallas, Texas;
     George Miller, Los Angeles, California;
     Nicholas C. Mueller, Baltimore, Maryland;
     Herbert Myerberg, Baltimore, Maryland;
     Thomas J. Potts, Columbus, Ohio;
     Norfleet H. Rand, Saint Louis, Missouri;
     G. Ruhland Rebmann, Junior, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
     James B. Reese, Los Angeles, California;
     Sanford Reider, Cleveland, Ohio;
     Thomas A. Rogers, Denver, Colorado;
     Robert N. Rosenthal, Cincinnati, Ohio;
     Canon John Samuel, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada;
     Maurice Schwarz, Junior, Los Angeles, California;
     Isadore M. Scott, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
     Milton Seaman, New York City, New York;
     Nathaniel Sharf, Boston, Massachusetts;
     Jay C. Standish, Cleveland, Ohio;
     Donald W. Thornburgh, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
     Robert L. Walston, Houston, Texas;
     J. Austin White, Cincinnati, Ohio;
     Meredith Willson, Los Angeles, California;
     Paul Wilson, Detroit, Michigan; and
     E. N. Zeigler, Florence, South Carolina.
  (b) Tenure
     Thereafter the board of directors of the corporation shall consist of such number as may be prescribed in the constitution of the corporation, and the members of such board shall be selected in such manner (including the filling of vacancies), and shall serve for such terms, as may be prescribed in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
  (c) Duties
     The board of directors shall be the managing body of the corporation and shall have such powers, duties, and responsibilities as may be prescribed in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
