   As used in this chapter–
  (1) T4BoardK.–The terms ””Finance Board““ and ””Board““ mean the Federal Housing Finance Board established under section 1422a of this title.
  (2)    (A) T4BankK.–The term ””Federal Home Loan Bank““ or ””Bank““ means a bank established under the authority of this chapter.
    (B) T4Bank systemK.–The term ””Federal Home Loan Bank System““ means the Federal Home Loan Banks under the supervision of the Board.
  (3) T4StateK.–The term ””State““, in addition to the States of the United States, includes the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
  (4) The term ””member““ means any institution which has subscribed for the stock of a Federal Home Loan Bank.
  (5) The term ””home mortgage loan““ means a loan made by a member upon the security of a home mortgage.
  (6) The term ””home mortgage““ means a mortgage upon real estate, in fee simple, or on a leasehold (1) under a lease for not less than ninety-nine years which is renewable or (2) under a lease having a period of not less than fifty years to run from the date the mortgage was executed, upon which is located, or which comprises or includes, one or more homes or other dwelling units, all of which may be defined by the Board and shall include, in addition to first mortgages, such classes of first liens as are commonly given to secure advances on real estate by institutions authorized under this chapter to become members, under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby.
  (7) The term ””unpaid principal,““ when used in respect of a loan secured by a home mortgage means the principal thereof less the sum of (1) payments made on such principal, and (2) in cases where shares or stock are pledged as security for the loan, the payments made on such shares or stock plus earnings or dividends apportioned or credited thereon.
  (8) An ””amortized““ or ””installment““ home mortgage loan shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be a home mortgage loan to be repaid or liquidated in not less than eight years by means of regular weekly, monthly, or quarterly payments made directly in reduction of the debt or upon stock or shares pledged as collateral for the repayment of such loan.
  (9) T4Savings associationK.–The term ””savings association““ has the meaning given to such term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813].
  (10) T4ChairpersonK.–The term ””Chairperson““ means the Chairperson of the Board.
  (11) T4SecretaryK.–The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (12) T4Insured depository institutionK.–The term ””insured depository institution““ means–
    (A) an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813]), and
    (B) except as used in sections 1441a and 1441b of this title, an insured credit union (as defined in section 1752 of this title).
  (13) T4Community financial institution.–
    (A) T4In generalK.–The term ””community financial institution““ means a member–
      (i) the deposits of which are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.]; and
      (ii) that has, as of the date of the transaction at issue, less than $500,000,000 in average total assets, based on an average of total assets over the 3 years preceding that date.
    (B) T4AdjustmentsK.–The $500,000,000 limit referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be adjusted annually by the Finance Board, based on the annual percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers, as published by the Department of Labor.
