  (a) Authority to issue; terms and conditions; validity
     The Corporation is authorized, upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, to borrow, to give security, to pay interest or other return, and to issue notes, debentures, bonds, or other obligations, or other securities, including without limitation mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association in the manner provided in section 1721(g) of this title. Any obligation or security of the Corporation shall be valid and binding notwithstanding that a person or persons purporting to have executed or attested the same may have died, become under disability, or ceased to hold office or employment before the issuance thereof.
  (b) Prohibitions and restrictions; creation of liens and charges; rank and priority; causes of action to enforce; jurisdiction; service of process
     The Corporation may, by regulation or by writing executed by the Corporation, establish prohibitions or restrictions upon the creation of indebtedness or obligations of the Corporation or of liens or charges upon property of the Corporation, including after-acquired property, and create liens and charges, which may be floating liens or charges, upon all or any part or parts of the property of the Corporation, including after-acquired property. Such prohibitions, restrictions, liens, and charges shall have such effect, including without limitation on the generality of the foregoing such rank and priority, as may be provided by regulations of the Corporation or by writings executed by the Corporation, and shall create causes of action which may be enforced by action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or in the United States district court for any judicial district in which any of the property affected is located. Process in any such action may run to and be served in any judicial district or any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
  (c) Purchase of obligations; funds, maximum amount of purchases, etc.
    (1) The Secretary of the Treasury may purchase any obligations issued under subsection (a) of this section. For such purpose, the Secretary may use as a public debt transaction the proceeds of the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under such chapter are extended to include such purpose.
    (2) The Secretary of \1\N Treasury shall not at any time purchase any obligations under this subsection if the purchase would increase the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding holdings of obligations under this subsection by the Secretary to an amount greater than $2,250,000,000.
    (3) Each purchase of obligations by the Secretary of the Treasury under this subsection shall be upon terms and conditions established to yield a rate of return determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, taking into consideration the current average rate on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States as of the last day of the month preceding the making of the purchase.
    (4) The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell, upon terms and conditions and at prices determined by the Secretary, any of the obligations acquired by the Secretary under this subsection.
    (5) All redemptions, purchases and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of obligations under this subsection shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States.
  (d) Validity of provisions; validity of restrictions, prohibitions, liens, or charges
     The provisions of this section and of any restriction, prohibition, lien, or charge referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall be fully effective notwithstanding any other law, including without limitation on the generality of the foregoing any law of or relating to sovereign immunity or priority.
  (e) Authority to purchase, hold, or invest by person, trust, or organization
    (1) Any person, trust, or organization created pursuant to or existing under the laws of the United States or any State shall be authorized to purchase, hold, and invest in mortgages, obligations, or other securities which are or have been sold by the Corporation pursuant to this section or pursuant to section 1454 of this title to the same extent that such person, trust, or organization is authorized under any applicable law to purchase, hold, or invest in obligations issued by or guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof. Where State law limits the purchase, holding, or investment in obligations issued by the United States by such a person, trust, or organization, such Corporation mortgages, obligations, and other securities shall be considered to be obligations issued by the United States for purposes of the limitation.
    (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to a particular person, trust, or organization or class thereof in any State which, after December 21, 1979, enacts a statute which specifically names the Corporation and either prohibits or provides for a more limited authority to purchase, hold, or invest in such securities by such person, trust, or organization or class thereof than is provided in paragraph (1). The enactment by any State of any statute of the type described in the preceding sentence shall not affect the validity of any contractual commitment to purchase, hold, or invest which was made prior thereto.
    (3) Any authority granted by paragraph (1) and not granted by any other Federal statute shall expire as of the end of June 30, 1985. Such expiration shall not affect the validity of any contractual commitment to purchase, hold, or invest which was made prior thereto pursuant to paragraph (1), and shall not affect the validity of any contractual commitment or other action to purchase, hold, or invest pursuant to any other authorization.
  (f) Preferred stock
     The Corporation may have preferred stock on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. Any preferred stock shall not be entitled to vote with respect to the election of any member of the Board of Directors.
  (g) Securities exempt from regulation
     All securities issued or guaranteed by the Corporation (other than securities guaranteed by the Corporation that are backed by mortgages not purchased by the Corporation) shall, to the same extent as securities that are direct obligations of or obligations guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States, be deemed to be exempt securities within the meaning of the laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
  (h) Securities backed by mortgages not purchased by Corporation
    (1) The Corporation may not guarantee mortgage-backed securities or mortgage related payment securities backed by mortgages not purchased by the Corporation.
    (2) The Corporation shall insert appropriate language in all of the obligations and securities of the Corporation issued under this section and section 1454 of this title clearly indicating that such obligations and securities, together with the interest thereon, are not guaranteed by the United States and do not constitute a debt or obligation of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof other than the Corporation.
      (i) Prohibition on assessment or collection of fee or charge by United States
         Except for fees paid pursuant to sections 1452(c) \2\N and 1455(c) \2\ of this title and assessments pursuant to section 4516 \2\ of this title, no fee or charge may be assessed or collected by the United States (including any executive department, agency, or independent establishment of the United States) on or with regard to the purchase, acquisition, sale, pledge, issuance, guarantee, or redemption of any mortgage, asset, obligation, or other security by the Corporation. No provision of this subsection shall affect the purchase of any obligation by any Federal home loan bank pursuant to section 1452(a) of this title.
      (j) Notes, debentures, or substantially identical types of unsecured obligations; issuance, maturities, interest rates, etc.
        (1) Any notes, debentures, or substantially identical types of unsecured obligations of the Corporation evidencing money borrowed, whether general or subordinated, shall be issued upon the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury and shall have such maturities and bear such rate or rates of interest as may be determined by the Corporation with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury.
        (2) Any notes, debentures, of \3\N substantially identical types of unsecured obligations of the Corporation having maturities of 1 year or less that the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of August 9, 1989, shall be deemed to have been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this subsection. Such deemed approval shall expire 365 days after August 9, 1989.
        (3) Any notes, debentures, or substantially identical types of unsecured obligations of the Corporation having maturities of more than 1 year that the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of August 9, 1989, shall be deemed to have been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this subsection. Such deemed approval shall expire 60 days after August 9, 1989.
      (k) Securities in form of debt obligations or trust certificates of beneficial interest; issuance, maturities, interest rates, etc.
        (1) Any securities in the form of debt obligations or trust certificates of beneficial interest, or both, and based upon mortgages held and set aside by the Corporation, shall be issued upon the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury and shall have such maturities and shall bear such rate or rates of interest as may be determined by the Corporation with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury.
        (2) Any securities in the form of debt obligations or trust certificates of beneficial interest, or both, and based upon mortgages held and set aside by the Corporation, that the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of August 9, 1989, shall be deemed to have been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this subsection.
