  (a) In general
     The purpose of this section is to provide a means for creating effective and flexible liquidity in savings associations which can be increased when mortgage money is plentiful, maintained in easily liquidated instruments, and reduced to add to the flow of funds to the mortgage market in periods of credit stringency. More flexible liquidity will help support sound mortgage credit and a more stable supply of such credit.
  (b) Maintenance of account
    (1) In general
       Every savings association shall maintain the aggregate amount of its assets of the following types at not less than such amount as, in the opinion of the Director, is appropriate:
      (A) cash;
      (B) balances maintained in a Federal reserve bank or passed through a Federal home loan bank or another depository institution to a Federal reserve bank pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act [12 U.S.C. 221 et seq.]; and
      (C) to such extent as the Director may approve for the purposes of this section–
        (i) time and savings deposits in Federal home loan banks, institutions which are, or are eligible to become, members thereof, and commercial banks;
        (ii) such obligations, including such special obligations, of the United States, a State, any territory or possession of the United States, or a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing, and bankers“ acceptances, as the Director may approve;
        (iii) shares or certificates of any open-end management investment company which is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a–1 et seq.] and the portfolio of which is restricted by such investment company“s investment policy, changeable only if authorized by shareholder vote, solely to any of the obligations or other investments enumerated in subparagraph (A) and in clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) of this subparagraph;
        (iv) liquid, highly rated corporate debt obligations with 3 years or less remaining until maturity;
        (v) highly rated commercial paper with 270 days or less remaining until maturity;
        (vi) mortgage related securities (as that term is defined in section 3(a)(41) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(41)])–
          (I) that have one year or less remaining until maturity; or
          (II) that are subject to an agreement (including a repurchase agreement, put option, right of redemption, or takeout commitment) that requires another person to purchase the securities within a period that does not exceed one year, and that person is an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813]) that is in compliance with applicable capital standards, a primary dealer in United States Government securities, or a broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.]; and
        (vii) mortgage loans on the security of a first lien on residential real property, if the mortgage loans qualify as backing for mortgage-backed securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association or guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association, and either–
          (I) the mortgage loans have one year or less remaining until maturity, or
          (II) the mortgage loans are subject to an agreement (including a repurchase agreement, put option, right of redemption, or takeout commitment) that requires another person to purchase the loans within a period that does not exceed one year, and that person is an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813]) that is in compliance with applicable capital standards, a primary dealer in United States Government securities, or a broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.].
    (2) Limitation
       The requirement prescribed by the Director pursuant to this subsection (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””liquidity requirement““) may not be less than 4 percent or more than 10 percent of the obligation of the institution on withdrawable accounts and borrowings payable on demand or with unexpired maturities of one year or less. The Director shall prescribe regulations to implement the provisions of this subsection.
  (c) Calculation
     The amount of any savings association“s liquidity requirement, and any deficiency in compliance therewith, shall be calculated as the Director shall prescribe. The Director may prescribe different liquidity requirements, within the limitations specified herein, for different classes of savings associations, and for such purposes the Director is authorized to classify savings associations according to type, size, location, rate of withdrawals, or on such other basis or bases of differentiation as the Director may deem to be reasonably necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this section.
  (d) Deficiency assessments
     For any deficiency in compliance with the liquidity requirements, the Director may, in the Director“s discretion, assess a penalty consisting of the payment by the institution of such sum as may be assessed by the Director but not in excess of a rate equal to the highest rate on Federal home loan bank advances of one year or less, plus 2 percent per year, on the amount of the deficiency for the period with respect to which the deficiency existed. Any penalty assessed under this subsection against a savings association shall be paid to the Director. The Director may authorize or require that, at any time before collection thereof, and whether before or after the bringing of any action or other legal proceeding, the obtaining of any judgment or other recovery, or the issuance or levy of any execution or other legal process therefor, and with or without consideration, any such penalty or recovery be compromised, remitted, or mitigated in whole or part. The penalties authorized under this subsection are in addition to all remedies and sanctions otherwise available.
  (e) Reduction or suspension
     Whenever the Director deems it advisable in order to enable a savings association to meet withdrawals or to pay obligations, the Director may, to such extent and subject to such conditions as the Director may prescribe, permit the savings association to reduce its liquidity below the minimum amount. Whenever the Director determines that conditions of national emergency or unusual economic stress exist, the Director may suspend any part or all of the liquidity requirements hereunder for such period as the Director may prescribe. Any such suspension, unless sooner terminated by its terms or by the Director, shall terminate at the expiration of 90 days next after its commencement. The preceding sentence does not prevent the Director from again exercising, before, at, or after any such termination, the authority conferred by this subsection.
  (f) Regulating authority
     The Director is authorized to issue such regulations, including definitions of terms used in this section, to make such examinations, and to conduct such investigations as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this section. The reasonable cost of any such examination or investigation, as determined by the Director, shall be paid by the association.
