  (a) Establishment; abolishment of General Reinsurance Account
     The Secretary shall establish as of July 1, 1954, in the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund a General Surplus Account and a Participating Reserve Account. All of the assets of the General Reinsurance Account shall be transferred to the General Surplus Account whereupon the General Reinsurance Account shall be abolished. There shall be transferred from the various group accounts to the Participating Reserve Account as of July 1, 1954, an amount equal to the aggregate amount which would have been distributed under the provisions of this section in effect on June 30, 1954, if all outstanding mortgages in such group accounts had been paid in full on said date. All of the remaining balances of said group accounts shall as of said date be transferred to the General Surplus Account whereupon all of said group accounts shall be abolished.
  (b) Credits and charges
     The aggregate net income thereafter received or any net loss thereafter sustained by the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund in any semiannual period shall be credited or charged to the General Surplus Account and/or the Participating Reserve Account in such manner and amounts as the Secretary may determine to be in accord with sound actuarial and accounting practice.
  (c) Distribution of funds to terminating mortgagors
     Upon termination of the insurance obligation of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund by payment of any mortgage insured thereunder, the Secretary is authorized to distribute to the mortgagor a share of the Participating Reserve Account in such manner and amount as the Secretary shall determine to be equitable and in accordance with sound actuarial and accounting practice: T3ProvidedK, That, in no event, shall any such distributable share exceed the aggregate scheduled annual premiums of the mortgagor to the year of termination of the insurance. The Secretary shall not distribute any share to an eligible mortgagor under this subsection beginning on the date which is 6 years after the date the Secretary first transmitted written notification of eligibility to the last known address of the mortgagor, unless the mortgagor has applied in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Secretary for payment of the share within the 6-year period. The Secretary shall transfer any amounts no longer eligible for distribution under the previous sentence from the Participating Reserve Account to the General Surplus Account.
  (d) Rights and liabilities
     No mortgagor or mortgagee of any mortgage insured under section 1709 of this title shall have any vested right in a credit balance in any such account or be subject to any liability arising out of the mutuality of the Fund and the determination of the Secretary as to the amount to be paid by him to any mortgagor shall be final and conclusive.
  (e) Actuarial status of entire Fund
     In determining whether there is a surplus for distribution to mortgagors under this section, the Secretary shall take into account the actuarial status of the entire Fund.
  (f) Capital ratio for Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund
    (1) The Secretary shall ensure that the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund attains a capital ratio of not less than 1.25 percent within 24 months after November 5, 1990, and maintains such ratio thereafter, subject to paragraph (2).
    (2) The Secretary shall endeavor to ensure that the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund attains a capital ratio of not less than 2.0 percent within 10 years after November 5, 1990, and shall ensure that the Fund maintains at least such capital ratio at all times thereafter.
    (3) Upon the expiration of the 24-month period beginning on November 5, 1990, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report describing the actions the Secretary will take to ensure that the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund attains the capital ratio required under paragraph (2).
    (4) For purposes of this subsection:
      (A) The term ””capital““ means the economic net worth of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund, as determined by the Secretary under the annual audit required under section 1735f–16 of this title.
      (B) The term ””capital ratio““ means the ratio of capital to unamortized insurance-in-force.
      (C) The term ””economic net worth““ means the current cash available to the Fund, plus the net present value of all future cash inflows and outflows expected to result from the outstanding mortgages in the Fund.
      (D) The term ””unamortized insurance-in-force““ means the remaining obligation on outstanding mortgages which are obligations of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund, as estimated by the Secretary.
  (g) Annual independent audit of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund
     The Secretary shall provide for an independent actuarial study of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund to be conducted annually and shall report annually to the Congress regarding the financial status of the Fund.
  (h) Adjustment of premiums
    (1) If, pursuant to the independent annual actuarial study of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund required under subsection (g) of this section, the Secretary determines that the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund is not meeting the operational goals under paragraph (2), the Secretary may not issue distributions, and may, by regulation, propose and implement any adjustments to the insurance premiums under section 1709(c) of this title or section 2103(b) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. Upon determining that a premium change is appropriate under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall immediately notify Congress of the proposed change and the reasons for the change. Any such premium change shall not take effect before the expiration of the 90-day period beginning upon such notification.
    (2) The operational goals referred to in paragraph (1) shall be–
      (A) maintaining an adequate capital ratio;
      (B) meeting the needs of homebuyers with low downpayments and first-time homebuyers by providing access to mortgage credit;
      (C) minimizing the risk to the Fund and to homeowners from homeowner default; and
      (D) avoiding adverse selection.
