  (a) Payment of partial claim
     The Secretary may establish a program for payment of a partial claim to a mortgagee that agrees to apply the claim amount to payment of a mortgage on a 1- to 4-family residence that is in default. Any such payment under such program to the mortgagee shall be made in the sole discretion of the Secretary and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Secretary, except that–
    (1) the amount of the payment shall be in an amount determined by the Secretary, not to exceed an amount equivalent to 12 of the monthly mortgage payments and any costs related to the default that are approved by the Secretary; and
    (2) the mortgagor shall agree to repay the amount of the insurance claim to the Secretary upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Secretary.
       The Secretary may pay the mortgagee, from the appropriate insurance fund, in connection with any activities that the mortgagee is required to undertake concerning repayment by the mortgagor of the amount owed to the Secretary.
  (b) Assignment
    (1) Program authority
       The Secretary may establish a program for assignment to the Secretary, upon request of the mortgagee, of a mortgage on a 1- to 4-family residence insured under this chapter.
    (2) Program requirements
       The Secretary may accept assignment of a mortgage under a program under this subsection only if–
      (A) the mortgage was in default;
      (B) the mortgagee has modified the mortgage to cure the default and provide for mortgage payments within the reasonable ability of the mortgagor to pay, at interest rates not exceeding current market interest rates; and
      (C) the Secretary arranges for servicing of the assigned mortgage by a mortgagee (which may include the assigning mortgagee) through procedures that the Secretary has determined to be in the best interests of the appropriate insurance fund.
    (3) Payment of insurance benefits
       Upon accepting assignment of a mortgage under a program established under this subsection, the Secretary may pay insurance benefits to the mortgagee from the appropriate insurance fund, in an amount that the Secretary determines to be appropriate, not to exceed the amount necessary to compensate the mortgagee for the assignment and any losses and expenses resulting from the mortgage modification.
  (c) Prohibition of judicial review
     No decision by the Secretary to exercise or forego exercising any authority under this section shall be subject to judicial review.
  (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101(e) [title II, § 221(b)(2)], Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321–257, 1321–291; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a), May 2, 1996, 110 Stat. 1327
  (e) Applicability of other laws
     No provision of this chapter, or any other law, shall be construed to require the Secretary to provide an alternative to foreclosure for mortgagees with mortgages on 1- to 4-family residences insured by the Secretary under this chapter, or to accept assignments of such mortgages.
