  (a) Establishment; management under National Credit Union Administration Board
     There is established in the executive branch of the Government an independent agency to be known as the National Credit Union Administration. The Administration shall be under the management of a National Credit Union Administration Board.
  (b) Membership and appointment of Board
    (1) In general
       The Board shall consist of three members, who are broadly representative of the public interest, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. In appointing the members of the Board, the President shall designate the Chairman. Not more than two members of the Board shall be members of the same political party.
    (2) Appointment criteria
      (A) Experience in financial services
         In considering appointments to the Board under paragraph (1), the President shall give consideration to individuals who, by virtue of their education, training, or experience relating to a broad range of financial services, financial services regulation, or financial policy, are especially qualified to serve on the Board.
      (B) Limit on appointment of credit union officers
         Not more than one member of the Board may be appointed to the Board from among individuals who, at the time of the appointment, are, or have recently been, involved with any insured credit union as a committee member, director, officer, employee, or other institution-affiliated party.
  (c) Term of office
     The term of office of each member of the Board shall be six years, except that the terms of the two members, other than the Chairman, initially appointed shall expire one upon the expiration of two years after the date of appointment, and the other upon the expiration of four years after the date of appointment. Board members shall not be appointed to succeed themselves except the initial members appointed for less than a six-year term may be reappointed for a full six-year term and future members appointed to fill unexpired terms may be reappointed for a full six-year term. Any Board member may continue to serve as such after the expiration of said member“s term until a successor has qualified.
  (d) Management of Administration vested in Board; adoption of rules; quorum; report to President and Congress
     The management of the Administration shall be vested in the Board. The Board shall adopt such rules as it sees fit for the transaction of its business and shall keep permanent and complete records and minutes of its acts and proceedings. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum. Not later than April 1 of each calendar year, and at such other times as the Congress shall determine, the Board shall make a report to the President and to the Congress. Such a report shall summarize the operations of the Administration and set forth such information as is necessary for the Congress to review the financial program approved by the Board.
  (e) Functions of Chairman
     The Chairman of the Board shall be the spokesman for the Board and shall represent the Board and the National Credit Union Administration in its official relations with other branches of the Government. The Chairman shall determine each Board member“s area of responsibility and shall review such assignments biennially. It shall be the Chairman“s responsibility to direct the implementation of the adopted policies and regulations of the Board.
  (f) Audit by Government Accountability Office
     The financial transactions of the Administration shall be subject to audit by the Government Accountability Office in accordance with the principles and procedures applicable to commercial corporate transactions and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. The audit shall be conducted at the place or places where the accounts of the Administration are kept.
