  (a) A Federal credit union may be converted into a State credit union under the laws of any State, the District of Columbia, the several Territories and possessions of the United States, the Panama Canal Zone, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, by complying with the following requirements:
    (1) The proposition for such conversion shall first be approved, and a date set for a vote thereon by the members (either at a meeting to be held on such date or by written ballot to be filed on or before such date), by a majority of the directors of the Federal credit union. Written notice of the proposition and of the date set for the vote shall then be delivered in person to each member, or mailed to each member at the address for such member appearing on the records of the credit union, not more than thirty nor less than seven days prior to such date. Approval of the proposition for conversion shall be by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the credit union who vote on the proposal. The written notice of the proposition shall in boldface type state that the issue will be decided by a majority of the members who vote.
    (2) A statement of the results of the vote, verified by the affidavits of the president or vice president and the secretary, shall be filed with the Administration within ten days after the vote is taken.
    (3) Promptly after the vote is taken and in no event later than ninety days thereafter, if the proposition for conversion was approved by such vote, the credit union shall take such action as may be necessary under the applicable State law to make it a State credit union, and within ten days after receipt of the State credit union charter there shall be filed with the Administration a copy of the charter thus issued. Upon such filing the credit union shall cease to be a Federal credit union.
    (4) Upon ceasing to be a Federal credit union, such credit union shall no longer be subject to any of the provisions of this chapter. The successor State credit union shall be vested with all of the assets and shall continue responsible for all of the obligations of the Federal credit union to the same extent as though the conversion had not taken place.
  (b)    (1) A State credit union, organized under the laws of any State, the District of Columbia, the several Territories and possessions of the United States, the Panama Canal Zone, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, may be converted into a Federal credit union by (A) complying with all State requirements requisite to enabling it to convert to a Federal credit union or to cease being a State credit union, (B) filing with the Administration proof of such compliance, satisfactory to the Board, and (C) filing with the Administration and organization certificate as required by this chapter.
    (2) When the Board has been satisfied that all of such requirements, and all other requirements of this chapter, have been complied with, the Board shall approve the organization certificate. Upon such approval, the State credit union shall become a Federal credit union as of the date it ceases to be a State credit union. The Federal credit union shall be vested with all of the assets and shall continue responsible for all of the obligations of the State credit union to the same extent as though the conversion had not taken place.
