  (a) Establishment of Stabilization Fund
     There is hereby created in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ””Temporary Corporate Credit Union Stabilization Fund.““ The Board will administer the Stabilization Fund as prescribed by section 1789 of this title.
  (b) Expenditures from Stabilization Fund
     Money in the Stabilization Fund shall be available upon requisition by the Board, without fiscal year limitation, for making payments for the purposes described in section 1783(a) of this title, subject to the following additional limitations:
    (1) All payments other than administrative payments shall be connected to the conservatorship, liquidation, or threatened conservatorship or liquidation, of a corporate credit union.
    (2) Prior to authorizing each payment the Board shall–
      (A) certify that, absent the existence of the Stabilization Fund, the Board would have made the identical payment out of the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (Insurance Fund); and
      (B) report each such certification to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
  (c) Authority to borrow
    (1) In general
       The Stabilization Fund is authorized to borrow from the Secretary of the Treasury from time-to-time as deemed necessary by the Board. The maximum outstanding amount of all borrowings from the Treasury by the Stabilization Fund and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, combined, is limited to the amount provided for in section 1783(d)(1) of this title, including any authorized increases in that amount.
    (2) Repayment of advances
      (A) In general
         The advances made under this section shall be repaid by the Stabilization Fund, and interest on such advance shall be paid, to the General fund of the Treasury.
      (B) Variable rate of interest
         The Secretary of the Treasury shall make the first rate determination at the time of the first advance under this section and shall reset the rate again for all advances on each anniversary of the first advance. The interest rate shall be equal to the average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods to maturity equal to 12 months.
    (3) Repayment schedule
       The Stabilization Fund shall repay the advances on a first-in, first-out basis, with interest on the amount repaid, at times and dates determined by the Board at its discretion. All advances shall be repaid not later than the date of the seventh anniversary of the first advance to the Stabilization Fund, unless the Board extends this final repayment date. The Board shall obtain the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury on any proposed extension, including the terms and conditions of the extended repayment and any additional advances.
  (d) Assessment authority
    (1) Assessments relating to expenditures under subsection (b)
       In order to make expenditures, as described in subsection (b), the Board may assess a special premium with respect to each insured credit union in an aggregate amount that is reasonably calculated to make any pending or future expenditure described in subsection (b), which premium shall be due and payable not later than 60 days after the date of the assessment. In setting the amount of any assessment under this subsection, the Board shall take into consideration any potential impact on credit union earnings that such an assessment may have.
    (2) Special premiums relating to repayments under subsection (c)(3)
       Not later than 90 days before the scheduled date of each repayment described in subsection (c)(3), the Board shall set the amount of the upcoming repayment and shall determine whether the Stabilization Fund will have sufficient funds to make the repayment. If the Stabilization Fund is not likely to have sufficient funds to make the repayment, the Board shall assess with respect to each insured credit union a special premium, which shall be due and payable not later than 60 days after the date of the assessment, in an aggregate amount calculated to ensure that the Stabilization Fund is able to make the required repayment.
    (3) Computation
       Any assessment or premium charge for an insured credit union under this subsection shall be stated as a percentage of its insured shares, as represented on the previous call report of that insured credit union. The percentage shall be identical for each insured credit union. Any insured credit union that fails to make timely payment of the assessment or special premium is subject to the procedures and penalties described under subsections (d), (e), and (f) of section 1782 of this title.
  (e) Distributions from Insurance Fund
     At the end of any calendar year in which the Stabilization Fund has an outstanding advance from the Treasury, the Insurance Fund is prohibited from making the distribution to insured credit unions described in section 1782(c)(3) of this title. In lieu of the distribution described in that section, the Insurance Fund shall make a distribution to the Stabilization Fund of the maximum amount possible that does not reduce the Insurance Fund“s equity ratio below the normal operating level and does not reduce the Insurance Fund“s available assets ratio below 1.0 percent.
  (f) Investment of Stabilization Fund assets
     The Board may request the Secretary of the Treasury to invest such portion of the Stabilization Fund as is not, in the Board“s judgment, required to meet the current needs of the Stabilization Fund. Such investments shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury in public debt securities, with maturities suitable to the needs of the Stabilization Fund, as determined by the Board, and bearing interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturity.
  (g) Reports
     The Board shall submit an annual report to Congress on the financial condition and the results of the operation of the Stabilization Fund. The report is due to Congress within 30 days after each anniversary of the first advance made under subsection (c)(1). Because the Fund will use advances from the Treasury to meet corporate stabilization costs with full repayment of borrowings to Treasury at the Board“s discretion not due until 7 years from the initial advance, to the extent operating expenses of the Fund exceed income, the financial condition of the Fund may reflect a deficit. With planned and required future repayments, the Board shall resolve all deficits prior to termination of the Fund.
  (h) Closing of Stabilization Fund
     Within 90 days following the seventh anniversary of the initial Stabilization Fund advance, or earlier at the Board“s discretion, the Board shall distribute any funds, property, or other assets remaining in the Stabilization Fund to the Insurance Fund and shall close the Stabilization Fund. If the Board extends the final repayment date as permitted under subsection (c)(3), the mandatory date for closing the Stabilization Fund shall be extended by the same number of days.
