  (a) Annual independent audit of private deposit insurers
    (1) Audit required
       Any private deposit insurer shall obtain an annual audit from an independent auditor using generally accepted auditing standards. The audit shall include a determination of whether the private deposit insurer follows generally accepted accounting principles and has set aside sufficient reserves for losses.
    (2) Providing copies of audit report
      (A) Private deposit insurer
         The private deposit insurer shall provide a copy of the audit report–
        (i) to each depository institution the deposits of which are insured by the private deposit insurer, not later than 14 days after the audit is completed; and
        (ii) to the appropriate supervisory agency of each State in which such an institution receives deposits, not later than 7 days after the audit is completed.
      (B) Depository institution
         Any depository institution the deposits of which are insured by the private deposit insurer shall provide a copy of the audit report, upon request, to any current or prospective customer of the institution.
  (b) Disclosure required
     Any depository institution lacking Federal deposit insurance shall, within the United States, do the following:
    (1) Periodic statements; account records
       Include conspicuously in all periodic statements of account, on each signature card, and on each passbook, certificate of deposit, or similar instrument evidencing a deposit a notice that the institution is not federally insured, and that if the institution fails, the Federal Government does not guarantee that depositors will get back their money.
    (2) Advertising; premises
       Include conspicuously in all advertising and at each place where deposits are normally received a notice that the institution is not federally insured.
    (3) Acknowledgement of disclosure
      (A) New depositors
         With respect to any depositor who was not a depositor at the depository institution before June 19, 1994, receive any deposit for the account of such depositor only if the depositor has signed a written acknowledgement that–
        (i) the institution is not federally insured; and
        (ii) if the institution fails, the Federal Government does not guarantee that the depositor will get back the depositor“s money.
      (B) Current depositors
         Receive any deposit after the effective date of this paragraph for the account of any depositor who was a depositor before June 19, 1994, only if–
        (i) the depositor has signed a written acknowledgement described in subparagraph (A); or
        (ii) the institution has complied with the provisions of subparagraph (C) which are applicable as of the date of the deposit.
      (C) Alternative provision of notice to current depositors
        (i) In general
           Transmit to each depositor who was a depositor before June 19, 1994, and has not signed a written acknowledgement described in subparagraph (A)–
          (I) a card containing the information described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A), and a line for the signature of the depositor; and
          (II) accompanying materials requesting the depositor to sign the card, and return the signed card to the institution.
        (ii) Manner and timing of notice
          (I) First notice
             Make the transmission described in clause (i) via first class mail not later than September 12, 1994.
          (II) Second notice
             Make a second transmission described in clause (i) via first class mail not less than 30 days and not more than 45 days after a transmission to the depositor in accordance with subclause (I), if the institution has not, by the date of such mailing, received from the depositor a card referred to in clause (i) which has been signed by the depositor.
          (III) Third notice
             Make a third transmission described in clause (i) via first class mail not less than 30 days and not more than 45 days after a transmission to the depositor in accordance with subclause (II), if the institution has not, by the date of such mailing, received from the depositor a card referred to in clause (i) which has been signed by the depositor.
  (c) Manner and content of disclosure
     To ensure that current and prospective customers understand the risks involved in foregoing Federal deposit insurance, the Federal Trade Commission, by regulation or order, shall prescribe the manner and content of disclosure required under this section.
  (d) Exceptions for institutions not receiving retail deposits
     The Federal Trade Commission may, by regulation or order, make exceptions to subsection (b) of this section for any depository institution that, within the United States, does not receive initial deposits of less than $100,000 from individuals who are citizens or residents of the United States, other than money received in connection with any draft or similar instrument issued to transmit money.
  (e) Eligibility for Federal deposit insurance
    (1) In general
       Except as permitted by the Federal Trade Commission, in consultation with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, no depository institution (other than a bank, including an unincorporated bank) lacking Federal deposit insurance may use the mails or any instrumentality of interstate commerce to receive or facilitate receiving deposits, unless the appropriate supervisor of the State in which the institution is chartered has determined that the institution meets all eligibility requirements for Federal deposit insurance, including–
      (A) in the case of an institution described in section 461(b)(1)(A)(iv) of this title, all eligibility requirements set forth in the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.] and regulations of the National Credit Union Administration; and
      (B) in the case of any other institution, all eligibility requirements set forth in this chapter and regulations of the Corporation.
    (2) Authority of FDIC and NCUA not affected
       No determination under paragraph (1) shall bind, or otherwise affect the authority of, the National Credit Union Administration or the Corporation.
  (f) Definitions
     For purposes of this section:
    (1) Appropriate supervisor
       The ””appropriate supervisor““ of a depository institution means the agency primarily responsible for supervising the institution.
    (2) Depository institution
       The term ””depository institution““ includes–
      (A) any entity described in section 461(b)(1)(A)(iv) of this title; and
      (B) any entity that, as determined by the Federal Trade Commission–
        (i) is engaged in the business of receiving deposits; and
        (ii) could reasonably be mistaken for a depository institution by the entity“s current or prospective customers.
    (3) Lacking Federal deposit insurance
       A depository institution lacks Federal deposit insurance if the institution is not either–
      (A) an insured depository institution; or
      (B) an insured credit union, as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1752].
    (4) Private deposit insurer
       The term ””private deposit insurer““ means any entity insuring the deposits of any depository institution lacking Federal deposit insurance.
  (g) Enforcement
     Compliance with the requirements of this section, and any regulation prescribed or order issued under this section, shall be enforced under the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.] by the Federal Trade Commission.
