  (a) In general
     Each agency described in subsection (b) of this section shall submit an annual report to the Congress which shall contain the following information with respect to the 12-month period for which such report is made:
    (1) The number of formal and informal supervisory, administrative, and civil enforcement actions initiated by such agency during such 12-month period, and the number of such actions completed by such agency during such 12-month period, including actions initiated or taken with respect to memoranda of understanding, written agreements, cease and desist orders (including temporary orders), suspension orders, removal or prohibition orders, and civil money penalty assessments.
    (2) The number of individuals and institutions against whom civil money penalties were assessed by such agency during such 12-month period, the amount of each such penalty, the total amount of all such penalties, and data on uncollected penalties for such period and prior years.
    (3) A description of all other enforcement efforts and initiatives relating to unsafe and unsound practices, criminal misconduct, and insider abuse which were undertaken by such agency during such 12-month period.
    (4) The number of criminal referrals made to the Department of Justice.
    (5) With respect to the criminal referrals received by the Department of Justice and with respect to investigations of similar matters initiated without such a referral, the number and status of grand jury investigations and investigations being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the number and disposition of prosecutions and civil actions commenced by the Attorney General.
    (6) Recommendations concerning the need for additional legislation or financial resources.
  (b) Agencies required to submit reports
     The agencies referred to in subsection (a) of this section are as follows:
    (1) The Comptroller of the Currency.
    (2) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
    (3) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
    (4) The Federal Housing Finance Board.
    (5) The Office of Thrift Supervision.
    (6) The National Credit Union Administration.
    (7) The Attorney General of the United States.
