  (a) Criminal penalty
    (1) Whoever knowingly violates any provision of this chapter or, being a company, violates any regulation or order issued by the Board under this chapter, shall be imprisoned not more than 1 year, fined not more than $100,000 per day for each day during which the violation continues, or both.
    (2) Whoever, with the intent to deceive, defraud, or profit significantly, knowingly violates any provision of this chapter shall be imprisoned not more than 5 years, fined not more than $1,000,000 per day for each day during which the violation continues, or both.
       Every officer, director, agent, and employee of a bank holding company shall be subject to the same penalties for false entries in any book, report, or statement of such bank holding company as are applicable to officers, directors, agents, and employees of member banks for false entries in any books, reports, or statements of member banks under section 1005 of title 18.
  (b) Civil money penalty
    (1) Penalty
       Any company which violates, and any individual who participates in a violation of, any provision of this chapter, or any regulation or order issued pursuant thereto, shall forfeit and pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day during which such violation continues.
    (2) Assessment; etc.
       Any penalty imposed under paragraph (1) may be assessed and collected by the Board in the manner provided in subparagraphs (E), (F), (G), and (I) of section 1818(i)(2) of this title for penalties imposed (under such section) and any such assessment shall be subject to the provisions of such section.
    (3) Hearing
       The company or other person against whom any penalty is assessed under this subsection shall be afforded an agency hearing if such association or person submits a request for such hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment. Section 1818(h) of this title shall apply to any proceeding under this subsection.
    (4) Disbursement
       All penalties collected under authority of this subsection shall be deposited into the Treasury.
    (5) ””Violate““ defined
       For purposes of this section, the term ””violate““ includes any action (alone or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.
    (6) Regulations
       The Board shall prescribe regulations establishing such procedures as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.
  (c) Notice under this section after separation from service
     The resignation, termination of employment or participation, or separation of an institution-affiliated party (within the meaning of section 1813(u) of this title) with respect to a bank holding company (including a separation caused by the deregistration of such a company) shall not affect the jurisdiction and authority of the Board to issue any notice and proceed under this section against any such party, if such notice is served before the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date such party ceased to be such a party with respect to such holding company (whether such date occurs before, on, or after August 9, 1989).
  (d) Penalty for failure to make reports
    (1) First tier
       Any company which–
      (A) maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any inadvertent error and, unintentionally and as a result of such an error–
        (i) fails to make, submit, or publish such reports or information as may be required under this chapter or under regulations prescribed by the Board pursuant to this chapter, within the period of time specified by the Board; or
        (ii) submits or publishes any false or misleading report or information; or
      (B) inadvertently transmits or publishes any report which is minimally late,
       shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each day during which such failure continues or such false or misleading information is not corrected. The company shall have the burden of proving that an error was inadvertent and that a report was inadvertently transmitted or published late.
    (2) Second tier
       Any company which–
      (A) fails to make, submit, or publish such reports or information as may be required under this chapter or under regulations prescribed by the Board pursuant to this chapter, within the period of time specified by the Board; or
      (B) submits or publishes any false or misleading report or information,
       in a manner not described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $20,000 for each day during which such failure continues or such false or misleading information is not corrected.
    (3) Third tier
       Notwithstanding paragraph (2), if any company knowingly or with reckless disregard for the accuracy of any information or report described in paragraph (2) submits or publishes any false or misleading report or information, the Board may, in its discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 or 1 percent of total assets of such company, whichever is less, per day for each day during which such failure continues or such false or misleading information is not corrected.
    (4) Assessment; etc.
       Any penalty imposed under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) shall be assessed and collected by the Board in the manner provided in subsection (b) of this section (for penalties imposed under such subsection) and any such assessment (including the determination of the amount of the penalty) shall be subject to the provisions of such subsection.
    (5) Hearing
       Any company against which any penalty is assessed under this subsection shall be afforded an agency hearing if such company submits a request for such hearing within 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment. Section 1818(h) of this title shall apply to any proceeding under this subsection.
