  (a) Charter
     Each Federal land bank association shall continue as a federally chartered instrumentality of the United States.
  (b) Organization
    (1) In general
       A Federal land bank association may be organized by any group of 10 or more persons desiring to borrow money from a Farm Credit Bank under section 2015(a) of this title, including persons to whom the Farm Credit Bank has made a loan directly or through an agent and has taken as security real estate located in the territory proposed to be served by the association.
    (2) Articles of association
      (A) Description of territory
         The articles of association shall describe the territory within which the association proposes to carry on its operations.
      (B) Submission to FCB
         Proposed articles shall be forwarded to the Farm Credit Bank for the district, accompanied by an agreement to subscribe on behalf of the association for stock in accordance with the bylaws of the Farm Credit Bank.
      (C) Stock purchase
         Association stock may be paid for by surrendering for cancellation stock in the bank held by a borrower and the issuance of an equivalent amount of stock to such borrower in the association.
      (D) Statement
         The articles shall be accompanied by a statement signed by each of the members of the proposed association establishing–
        (i) the individual“s eligibility and request for a Farm Credit Bank loan;
        (ii) that the real estate with respect to which the individual desires the loan for is not being served by another Federal land bank association; and
        (iii) that the individual is or will become a stockholder in the proposed association.
      (E) Submission to FCA
         A copy of the articles of association shall be forwarded to the Farm Credit Administration with the recommendations of the bank concerning the need for the proposed association in order to adequately serve the credit needs of eligible persons in the proposed territory and a statement as to whether or not the territory includes any territory described in the charter of another Federal land bank association.
    (3) Denials of charters
       The Farm Credit Administration for good cause shown may deny the charter applied for.
    (4) Approval of articles
       On the approval of the proposed articles by the Farm Credit Administration and the issuance of such charter, the association shall become as of such date a federally chartered body corporate and an instrumentality of the United States.
  (c) FCA authority on organization
     The Farm Credit Administration shall have power, in the terms of the charter, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Farm Credit Administration–
    (1) to provide for the organization of the association;
    (2) to provide for the initial amount of stock of the association;
    (3) to provide for the territory within which the association may carry on its operations; and
    (4) to approve amendments to the charter of such association.
