  (a) Appointment
     The management of the Farm Credit Administration shall be vested in a Farm Credit Administration Board (referred to in this part as ””the Board““). The Board shall consist of three members, who shall be citizens of the United States and broadly representative of the public interest. Members of the Board shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Not more than two members of the Board shall be members of the same political party. Of the persons thus appointed, one shall be designated by the President to serve as Chairman of the Board for the duration of the member“s term. The members of the Board shall be ineligible during the time they are in office and for two years thereafter to hold any office, position, or employment in any institution of the Farm Credit System.
  (b) Terms of office
     The term of office of each member of the Board shall be six years, except that the terms of the two members, other than the Chairman, first appointed under subsection (a) of this section shall expire, one on the expiration of two years after the date of appointment, and one on the expiration of four years after the date of appointment. Members of the Board shall not be appointed to succeed themselves, except that the members first appointed under subsection (a) of this section for a term of less than six years may be reappointed for a full six-year term and members appointed to fill unexpired terms of three years or less may be reappointed for a full six-year term. Any vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term on like appointment. Any member of the Board shall continue to serve as such after the expiration of the member“s term until a successor has been appointed and qualified.
  (c) Organization
     Each member of the Board, within fifteen days after notice of appointment, shall subscribe to the oath of office. The Board may transact business if a vacancy exists, provided a quorum is present. A quorum shall consist of two members of the Board. The Board shall hold at least one meeting each month and such additional meetings at such times and places as it may fix and determine. Such meetings shall be held on the call of the Chairman or any two Board members. The Board shall adopt such rules as it deems appropriate for the transaction of business by the Board, and shall keep permanent and accurate records and minutes of the actions and proceedings of the Board.
  (d) Compensation
     The members of the Board shall devote their full time and attention to the business of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall receive compensation at the rate prescribed for level III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314 of title 5. Each of the other members of the Board shall receive compensation at the rate prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5. Each member of the Board shall be reimbursed for necessary travel, subsistence, and other expenses in the discharge of the member“s official duties without regard to other laws with respect to allowance for travel and subsistence of officers and employees of the United States. This subsection shall be subject to the provisions of section 2245 of this title.
  (e) Qualifications of Farm Credit Administration Board members
     The President shall appoint members of the Board who–
    (1) are experienced or knowledgeable in agricultural economics and financial reporting and disclosure;
    (2) are experienced or knowledgeable in the regulation of financial entities; or
    (3) have a strong financial, legal, or regulatory background.
