  (a) Policies of Board
     The Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration Board, in carrying out the powers and duties vested in the Chairman by this chapter, and Acts supplementary thereto, shall be governed by policies of the Board and by such regulatory decisions, findings, and determinations as the Board may by law be authorized to make.
  (b) Appointments
     The Chairman of the Board shall appoint such personnel as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Farm Credit Administration. The appointment by the Chairman of the heads of major administrative divisions under the Board shall be subject to the approval of the Board.
  (c) Personnel
    (1) Appointments by Board members
       Personnel employed regularly and full-time in the immediate offices of Board members shall be appointed by each such Board member.
    (2) Officers and employees
      (A) Appointment, compensation, and benefits
         The Chairman shall fix the compensation and number of, and appoint and direct, employees of the Administration. The Chairman may set and adjust the rates of basic pay for employees of the Administration without regard to the provisions of chapter 51, or subchapter III of chapter 53, of title 5. The Chairman may provide such additional compensation and benefits to employees of the Administration as is necessary to maintain comparability with the total amount of compensation and benefits provided by other Federal bank regulatory agencies. In setting and adjusting the total amount of compensation and benefits for employees of the Administration, the Chairman shall consult with, and seek to maintain comparability with, other Federal bank regulatory agencies.
      (B) ””Other Federal bank regulatory agencies““ defined
         For purposes of this subsection, the term ””other Federal bank regulatory agencies““ has the same meaning given to the term ””appropriate Federal banking agency““ in section 1813(q) of this title.
      (C) Ethics in Government
         The officers and employees of the agency shall be–
        (i) subject to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978; and
        (ii) considered officers or employees of the United States for the purposes of sections 201 through 203, and sections 205 through 209, of title 18.
    (3) Delegation
       The powers of the Chairman as chief executive officer necessary for day to day management may be exercised and performed by the Chairman through such other officers and employees of the Administration as the Chairman shall designate, except that the Chairman may not delegate powers specifically reserved to the Chairman by this chapter without Board approval.
  (d) Funding
     The operations of the Farm Credit Administration, and the salaries of members of the Board and employees of the Administration, shall be funded and paid for from the fund created under section 2250 of this title.
