  (a) Regulations
     The Bureau shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. These regulations may contain such classifications, differentiations, or other provisions, and may provide for such adjustments and exceptions for any class of transactions, as in the judgment of the Bureau are necessary and proper to effectuate the purposes of this chapter, and prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate compliance therewith.
  (b) Powers of certain other agencies
    (1) In general
       Subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.], compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be enforced–
      (A) under section 1818 of this title, the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined in section 1813(q) of this title, with respect to–
        (i) any national bank or Federal savings association, and any Federal branch or Federal agency of a foreign bank;
        (ii) any member bank of the Federal Reserve System (other than a national bank), branch or agency of a foreign bank (other than a Federal branch, Federal agency, and insured State branch of a foreign bank), commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank, and any organization operating under section 25 or 25A of the Federal Reserve Act [12 U.S.C. 601 et seq., 611 et seq.]; and
        (iii) any bank or State savings association insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System), any mutual savings bank as,\1\N defined in section 1813(f) of this title, any insured State branch of a foreign bank, and any other depository institution not referred to in this paragraph or subparagraph (B) or (C);
      (B) under subtitle E of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5561 et seq.], by the Bureau, with respect to any person subject to this subtitle; \2\N
      (C) under the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.], by the Administrator of the National Credit Union Administration with respect to any insured credit union; and
      (D) with respect to other lending institutions, by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
    (2) Incorporated definitions
       The terms used in paragraph (1) that are not defined in this chapter or otherwise defined in section 1813(s) of this title shall have the same meanings as in section 3101 of this title.
  (c) Violations of this chapter deemed violations of certain other provisions
     For the purpose of the exercise by any agency referred to in subsection (b) of this section of its powers under any Act referred to in that subsection, a violation of any requirement imposed under this chapter shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. In addition to its powers under any provision of law specifically referred to in subsection (b) of this section, each of the agencies referred to in that subsection may exercise, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any requirement imposed under this chapter, any other authority conferred on it by law.
  (d) Overall enforcement authority of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
     Subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.], enforcement of the requirements imposed under this chapter is committed to each of the agencies under subsection (b). To facilitate research, examinations, and enforcement, all data collected pursuant to section 2803 of this title shall be available to the entities listed under subsection (b). The Bureau may exercise its authorities under the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to exercise principal authority to examine and enforce compliance by any person with the requirements of this chapter.
