  (a) Applicability of Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
     A Government authority may obtain financial records under section 3402(3) of this title only if it obtains a search warrant pursuant to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
  (b) Mailing of copy and notice to customer
     No later than ninety days after the Government authority serves the search warrant, it shall mail to the customer“s last known address a copy of the search warrant together with the following notice:
     ””Records or information concerning your transactions held by the financial institution named in the attached search warrant were obtained by this (agency or department) on (date) for the following purpose:    . You may have rights under the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.].““.
  (c) Court-ordered delays in mailing
     Upon application of the Government authority, a court may grant a delay in the mailing of the notice required in subsection (b) of this section, which delay shall not exceed one hundred and eighty days following the service of the warrant, if the court makes the findings required in section 3409(a) of this title. If the court so finds, it shall enter an ex parte order granting the requested delay and an order prohibiting the financial institution from disclosing that records have been obtained or that a search warrant for such records has been executed. Additional delays of up to ninety days may be granted by the court upon application, but only in accordance with this subsection. Upon expiration of the period of delay of notification of the customer, the following notice shall be mailed to the customer along with a copy of the search warrant:
     ””Records or information concerning your transactions held by the financial institution named in the attached search warrant were obtained by this (agency or department) on (date). Notification was delayed beyond the statutory ninety-day delay period pursuant to a determination by the court that such notice would seriously jeopardize an investigation concerning    . You may have rights under the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.].““.
