  (a) Delivery of deeds
     The foreclosure commissioner shall, upon delivery of a deed or deeds to the purchaser or purchasers (which shall be without warranty or covenants to the purchaser or purchasers) obtain the balance of the purchase price in accordance with the terms of sale provided in the notice of default and foreclosure sale. Notwithstanding any State law to the contrary, delivery of a deed by the foreclosure commissioner shall be a conveyance of the property, and constitute passage of title to the mortgaged property, and no judicial proceedings shall be required ancillary or supplementary to the procedures provided in this chapter to assure the validity of the conveyance or confirmation of such conveyance.
  (b) Right of possession
     A purchaser at a foreclosure sale held pursuant to this chapter shall be entitled to possession upon passage of title under subsection (a) of this section to the mortgaged property, subject to any interest or interests not barred under section 3765 of this title. Any person remaining in possession of the mortgaged property after the passage of title shall be deemed a tenant at sufferance subject to eviction under local law.
  (c) Death of purchaser
     If a purchaser dies before execution and delivery of the deed conveying the property to the purchaser, the foreclosure commissioner shall execute and deliver the deed to a representative of the decedent purchaser“s estate upon payment of the purchase price in accordance with the terms of sale. Such delivery to the representative of the purchaser“s estate shall have the same effect as if accomplished during the lifetime of the purchaser.
  (d) Bona fide purchaser
     The purchaser of property under this chapter shall be presumed to be a bona fide purchaser.
  (e) No right of redemption
    (1) In general
       There shall be no right of redemption, or right of possession based upon a right of redemption, in the mortgagor or others subsequent to a foreclosure completed pursuant to this chapter.
    (2) Certain provisions
       Section 1710(T3lK) of this title and section 1452c of title 42 shall not apply to mortgages foreclosed under this chapter.
  (f) Taxes
     When a mortgage foreclosed pursuant to this chapter is conveyed to the Secretary, no tax shall be imposed or collected with respect to the foreclosure commissioner“s deed (including any tax customarily imposed upon the deed instrument or upon the conveyance or transfer of title to the property). Failure to collect or pay a tax of the type and under the circumstances stated in the preceding sentence shall not be grounds for refusing to record such a deed, for failing to recognize such recordation as imparting notice, or for denying the enforcement of such a deed and its provisions in any State or Federal court.
