   For purposes of this chapter–
  (1) Account
     The term ””account““ means a demand deposit account or other similar transaction account at a depository institution.
  (2) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
  (3) Business day
     The term ””business day““ means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
  (4) Cash
     The term ””cash““ means United States coins and currency, including Federal Reserve notes.
  (5) Cashier“s check
     The term ””cashier“s check““ means any check which–
    (A) is drawn on a depository institution;
    (B) is signed by an officer or employee of such depository institution; and
    (C) is a direct obligation of such depository institution.
  (6) Certified check
     The term ””certified check““ means any check with respect to which a depository institution certifies that–
    (A) the signature on the check is genuine; and
    (B) such depository institution has set aside funds which–
      (i) are equal to the amount of the check; and
      (ii) will be used only to pay such check.
  (7) Check
     The term ””check““ means any negotiable demand draft drawn on or payable through an office of a depository institution located in the United States. Such term does not include noncash items.
  (8) Check clearinghouse association
     The term ””check clearinghouse association““ means any arrangement by which participant depository institutions exchange deposited checks on a local basis, including an entire metropolitan area, without using the check processing facilities of the Federal Reserve System.
  (9) Check processing region
     The term ””check processing region““ means the geographical area served by a Federal Reserve bank check processing center or such larger area as the Board may prescribe by regulations.
  (10) Consumer account
     The term ””consumer account““ means any account used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
  (11) Depository check
     The term ””depository check““ means any cashier“s check, certified check, teller“s check, and any other functionally equivalent instrument as determined by the Board.
  (12) Depository institution
     The term ””depository institution““ has the meaning given such term in clauses (i) through (vi) of section 461(b)(1)(A) of this title. Such term also includes an office, branch, or agency of a foreign bank located in the United States.
  (13) Local originating depository institution
     The term ””local originating depository institution““ means any originating depository institution which is located in the same check processing region as the receiving depository institution.
  (14) Noncash item
     The term ””noncash item““ means–
    (A) a check or other demand item to which a passbook, certificate, or other document is attached;
    (B) a check or other demand item which is accompanied by special instructions, such as a request for special advise of payment or dishonor; or
    (C) any similar item which is otherwise classified as a noncash item in regulations of the Board.
  (15) Nonlocal originating depository institution
     The term ””nonlocal originating depository institution““ means any originating depository institution which is not a local depository institution.
  (16) Proprietary ATM
     The term ””proprietary ATM““ means an automated teller machine which is–
    (A) located–
      (i) at or adjacent to a branch of the receiving depository institution; or
      (ii) in close proximity, as defined by the Board, to a branch of the receiving depository institution; or
    (B) owned by, operated exclusively for, or operated by the receiving depository institution.
  (17) Originating depository institution
     The term ””originating depository institution““ means the branch of a depository institution on which a check is drawn.
  (18) Nonproprietary ATM
     The term ””nonproprietary ATM““ means an automated teller machine which is not a proprietary ATM.
  (19) Participant
     The term ””participant““ means a depository institution which–
    (A) is located in the same geographic area as that served by a check clearinghouse association; and
    (B) exchanges checks through the check clearinghouse association, either directly or through an intermediary.
  (20) Receiving depository institution
     The term ””receiving depository institution““ means the branch of a depository institution or the proprietary ATM in which a check is first deposited.
  (21) State
     The term ””State““ means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands.
  (22) Teller“s check
     The term ””teller“s check““ means any check issued by a depository institution and drawn on another depository institution.
  (23) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
  (24) Unit of general local government
     The term ””unit of general local government““ means any city, county, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State.
  (25) Wire transfer
     The term ””wire transfer““ has such meaning as the Board shall prescribe by regulations.
