  (1) In general
     Upon application by a State or local housing authority (including public housing agencies), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may make available, from sources of assistance appropriated to preserve the low and moderate income status of projects with expiring Federal use restrictions, assistance to such State or local housing authorities for use in preventing the loss of housing affordable for low and moderate income families that is assisted under a State program under the terms of which the owner may prepay a State assisted or subsidized mortgage on such housing. The application of the State or local housing authority shall demonstrate to the Secretary that the total amount of incentives provided to the owner to induce the owner to preserve the low and moderate income status of the project shall not exceed the level of incentives which may be provided to a similarly situated project with expiring Federal use restrictions under subtitle B of title II of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 [12 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.].
  (2) Section 1437f
     Any assistance under section 1437f of title 42 made available pursuant to this section may be used (i) to supplement any assistance available on existing section 8 [42 U.S.C. 1437f] contracts, or (ii) to provide additional assistance to structures to ensure that all units occupied by tenants who are lower income families (as such term is defined in section 1437a(b) of title 42) pay rents not exceeding 30 percent of their adjusted incomes. Any project receiving assistance hereunder shall be subject to standards, inspections and sanctions established by the Secretary under section 222(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 [12 U.S.C. 4112(d)]. Any such section 8 [42 U.S.C. 1437f] assistance shall be provided for a term and at the fair market rent levels or such higher levels used as applicable for eligible low-income housing that receives incentives under subtitle B of title II of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 [12 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.].
  (3) Restriction
     Assistance may be provided under this section only to State and local housing authorities that require any housing receiving such assistance to remain affordable for lower and moderate income tenants for the period during which assistance under this section is received.
