   For purposes of this chapter:
  (1) Affiliate
     Except as provided by the Director, the term ””affiliate““ means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, an enterprise.
  (2) Capital distribution
    (A) In general
       The term ””capital distribution““ means–
      (i) any dividend or other distribution in cash or in kind made with respect to any shares of, or other ownership interest in, an enterprise, except a dividend consisting only of shares of the enterprise;
      (ii) any payment made by an enterprise to repurchase, redeem, retire, or otherwise acquire any of its shares, including any extension of credit made to finance an acquisition by the enterprise of such shares; and
      (iii) any transaction that the Director determines by regulation to be, in substance, the distribution of capital.
    (B) Exception
       Any payment made by an enterprise to repurchase its shares for the purpose of fulfilling an obligation of the enterprise under an employee stock ownership plan that is qualified under section 401 of title 26 or any substantially equivalent plan, as determined by the Director, shall not be considered a capital distribution.
  (3) Compensation
     The term ””compensation““ means any payment of money or the provision of any other thing of current or potential value in connection with employment.
  (4) Core capital
     The term ””core capital““ means, with respect to an enterprise, the sum of the following (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles):
    (A) The par or stated value of outstanding common stock.
    (B) The par or stated value of outstanding perpetual, noncumulative preferred stock.
    (C) Paid-in capital.
    (D) Retained earnings.
     The core capital of an enterprise shall not include any amounts that the enterprise could be required to pay, at the option of investors, to retire capital instruments.
  (5) Director
     The term ””Director““ means the Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  (6) Enterprise
     The term ””enterprise““ means–
    (A) the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof; and
    (B) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof.
  (7) Executive officer
     The term ””executive officer““ means, with respect to an enterprise, the chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, president, vice chairman, any executive vice president, and any senior vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division, or function.
  (8) Low-income
     The term ””low-income““ means–
    (A) in the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income; and
    (B) in the case of rental units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, as determined by the Secretary.
  (9) Median income
     The term ””median income““ means, with respect to an area, the unadjusted median family income for the area, as determined and published annually by the Secretary.
  (10) Moderate-income
     The term ””moderate-income““ means–
    (A) in the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of area median income; and
    (B) in the case of rental units, income not in excess of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, as determined by the Secretary.
  (11) Mortgage purchases
     The term ””mortgage purchases““ includes mortgages purchased for portfolio or securitization.
  (12) Multifamily housing
     The term ””multifamily housing““ means a residence consisting of more than 4 dwelling units.
  (13) New program
     The term ””new program““ means any program for the purchasing, servicing, selling, lending on the security of, or otherwise dealing in, conventional mortgages that–
    (A) is significantly different from programs that have been approved under this Act or that were approved or engaged in by an enterprise before October 28, 1992; or
    (B) represents an expansion, in terms of the dollar volume or number of mortgages or securities involved, of programs above limits expressly contained in any prior approval.
  (14) Office
     The term ””Office““ means the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  (15) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (16) Single family housing
     The term ””single family housing““ means a residence consisting of 1 to 4 dwelling units.
  (17) State
     The term ””State““ means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (18) Total capital
     The term ””total capital““ means, with respect to an enterprise, the sum of the following:
    (A) The core capital of the enterprise; \1\N
    (B) A general allowance for foreclosure losses, which–
      (i) shall include an allowance for portfolio mortgage losses, an allowance for nonreimbursable foreclosure costs on government claims, and an allowance for liabilities reflected on the balance sheet for the enterprise for estimated foreclosure losses on mortgage-backed securities; and
      (ii) shall not include any reserves of the enterprise made or held against specific assets.
    (C) Any other amounts from sources of funds available to absorb losses incurred by the enterprise, that the Director by regulation determines are appropriate to include in determining total capital.
  (19) Very low-income
     The term ””very low-income““ means–
    (A) in the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 60 percent of area median income; and
    (B) in the case of rental units, income not in excess of 60 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, as determined by the Secretary.
