  (a) In general
     The Secretary shall establish an annual goal for the purchase by each enterprise of mortgages on housing located in central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas. The Secretary may establish separate subgoals within the goal under this section and such subgoals shall not be enforceable under the provisions of section 4566 of this title, any other provision of this chapter, or any provision of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act [12 U.S.C. 1716 et seq.] or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act [12 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.].
  (b) Factors to be applied
     In establishing the housing goal under this section, the Secretary shall consider–
    (1) urban and rural housing needs and the housing needs of underserved areas;
    (2) economic, housing, and demographic conditions;
    (3) the performance and efforts of the enterprises toward achieving the central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas housing goal in previous years;
    (4) the size of the conventional mortgage market for central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas relative to the size of the overall conventional mortgage market;
    (5) the ability of the enterprises to lead the industry in making mortgage credit available throughout the United States, including central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas; and
    (6) the need to maintain the sound financial condition of the enterprises.
  (c) Location of properties
     The Secretary shall monitor the performance of each enterprise in carrying out this section and shall evaluate such performance (for purposes of section 4566 of this title) based on the location of the properties subject to mortgages purchased by each enterprise.
  (d) Transition
    (1) Interim target
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, during the 2-year period beginning on January 1, 1993, the annual target under this section for purchases by each enterprise of mortgages on housing located in central cities shall be 30 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by mortgage purchases of the enterprise.
    (2) Interim goal
       During such 2-year period, the Secretary shall establish a separate annual goal for each enterprise, the achievement of which shall require–
      (A) an enterprise that is not meeting the target under paragraph (1) upon January 1, 1993, to improve its performance relative to such target annually and, to the maximum extent feasible, to meet such target at the conclusion of such 2-year period; and
      (B) an enterprise that is meeting the target under paragraph (1) upon January 1, 1993, to improve its performance relative to the target.
    (3) ””Central city““ defined
       For purposes of this subsection, the term ””central city““ means any political subdivision designated as a central city by the Office of Management and Budget.
    (4) Implementation
       The Secretary shall establish any requirements necessary to implement the transition provisions under this subsection by notice, after providing the enterprises with an opportunity to review and comment not less than 30 days before the issuance of such notice. Such notice shall be issued not later than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning upon October 28, 1992, and shall be effective upon issuance.
