  (a) Authority
     The Secretary may impose a civil money penalty, in accordance with the provisions of this section, on any enterprise that has failed–
    (1) to submit a housing plan that substantially complies with section 4566(c) of this title within the applicable period;
    (2) to make a good faith effort to comply with a housing plan for the enterprise submitted and approved under section 4566(c) of this title; or
    (3) to submit the information required under subsection (m) or (n) of section 1723a of this title, subsection (e) or (f) of section 1456 of this title, or section 4567 of this title.
  (b) Amount of penalty
     The amount of the penalty, as determined by the Secretary, may not exceed–
    (1) for any failure described in subsection (a)(1) of this section, $25,000 for each day that the failure occurs; and
    (2) for any failure described in subsection (a)(2) or (3) of this section, $10,000 for each day that the failure occurs.
  (c) Procedures
    (1) Establishment
       The Secretary shall establish standards and procedures governing the imposition of civil money penalties under this section. Such standards and procedures–
      (A) shall provide for the Secretary to notify the enterprise in writing of the Secretary“s determination to impose the penalty, which shall be made on the record;
      (B) shall provide for the imposition of a penalty only after the enterprise has been given an opportunity for a hearing on the record pursuant to section 4582 of this title; and
      (C) may provide for review by the Director for any determination or order, or interlocutory ruling, arising from a hearing.
    (2) Factors in determining amount of penalty
       In determining the amount of a penalty under this section, the Secretary shall give consideration to such factors as the gravity of the offense, any history of prior offenses, ability to pay the penalty, injury to the public, benefits received, deterrence of future violations, and such other factors as the Secretary may determine, by regulation, to be appropriate.
  (d) Action to collect penalty
     If an enterprise fails to comply with an order by the Secretary imposing a civil money penalty under this section, after the order is no longer subject to review as provided by sections 4582 and 4583 of this title, the Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia to obtain a monetary judgment against the enterprise and such other relief as may be available. The monetary judgment may, in the court“s discretion, include the attorneys fees and other expenses incurred by the United States in connection with the action. In an action under this subsection, the validity and appropriateness of the order imposing the penalty shall not be subject to review.
  (e) Settlement by Secretary
     The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit any civil money penalty which may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
  (f) Transition period limitation
     The Secretary may not impose any civil money penalty under this section for any failure by an enterprise, during the 2-year period beginning on January 1, 1993, to comply with an approved housing plan, unless the Secretary determines that the enterprise has intentionally failed to make a good faith effort to comply with an approved plan.
  (g) Deposit of penalties
     The Secretary shall deposit any civil money penalties collected under this section into the general fund of the Treasury.
