  (a) Background checks
     In connection with an application to any State for licensing and registration as a State-licensed loan originator, the applicant shall, at a minimum, furnish to the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry information concerning the applicant“s identity, including–
    (1) fingerprints for submission to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and any governmental agency or entity authorized to receive such information for a State and national criminal history background check; and
    (2) personal history and experience, including authorization for the System to obtain–
      (A) an independent credit report obtained from a consumer reporting agency described in section 1681a(p) of title 15; and
      (B) information related to any administrative, civil or criminal findings by any governmental jurisdiction.
  (b) Issuance of license
     The minimum standards for licensing and registration as a State-licensed loan originator shall include the following:
    (1) The applicant has never had a loan originator license revoked in any governmental jurisdiction.
    (2) The applicant has not been convicted of, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony in a domestic, foreign, or military court–
      (A) during the 7-year period preceding the date of the application for licensing and registration; or
      (B) at any time preceding such date of application, if such felony involved an act of fraud, dishonesty, or a breach of trust, or money laundering.
    (3) The applicant has demonstrated financial responsibility, character, and general fitness such as to command the confidence of the community and to warrant a determination that the loan originator will operate honestly, fairly, and efficiently within the purposes of this chapter.
    (4) The applicant has completed the pre-licensing education requirement described in subsection (c).
    (5) The applicant has passed a written test that meets the test requirement described in subsection (d).
    (6) The applicant has met either a net worth or surety bond requirement, or paid into a State fund, as required by the State pursuant to section 5107(d)(6) of this title.
  (c) Pre-licensing education of loan originators
    (1) Minimum educational requirements
       In order to meet the pre-licensing education requirement referred to in subsection (b)(4), a person shall complete at least 20 hours of education approved in accordance with paragraph (2), which shall include at least–
      (A) 3 hours of Federal law and regulations;
      (B) 3 hours of ethics, which shall include instruction on fraud, consumer protection, and fair lending issues; and
      (C) 2 hours of training related to lending standards for the nontraditional mortgage product marketplace.
    (2) Approved educational courses
       For purposes of paragraph (1), pre-licensing education courses shall be reviewed, and approved by the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry.
    (3) Limitation and standards
      (A) Limitation
         To maintain the independence of the approval process, the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry shall not directly or indirectly offer pre-licensure educational courses for loan originators.
      (B) Standards
         In approving courses under this section, the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry shall apply reasonable standards in the review and approval of courses.
  (d) Testing of loan originators
    (1) In general
       In order to meet the written test requirement referred to in subsection (b)(5), an individual shall pass, in accordance with the standards established under this subsection, a qualified written test developed by the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry and administered by an approved test provider.
    (2) Qualified test
       A written test shall not be treated as a qualified written test for purposes of paragraph (1) unless the test adequately measures the applicant“s knowledge and comprehension in appropriate subject areas, including–
      (A) ethics;
      (B) Federal law and regulation pertaining to mortgage origination;
      (C) State law and regulation pertaining to mortgage origination;
      (D) Federal and State law and regulation, including instruction on fraud, consumer protection, the nontraditional mortgage marketplace, and fair lending issues.
    (3) Minimum competence
      (A) Passing score
         An individual shall not be considered to have passed a qualified written test unless the individual achieves a test score of not less than 75 percent correct answers to questions.
      (B) Initial retests
         An individual may retake a test 3 consecutive times with each consecutive taking occurring at least 30 days after the preceding test.
      (C) Subsequent retests
         After failing 3 consecutive tests, an individual shall wait at least 6 months before taking the test again.
      (D) Retest after lapse of license
         A State-licensed loan originator who fails to maintain a valid license for a period of 5 years or longer shall retake the test, not taking into account any time during which such individual is a registered loan originator.
  (e) Mortgage call reports
     Each mortgage licensee shall submit to the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry reports of condition, which shall be in such form and shall contain such information as the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry may require.
