  (a) Authority
    (1) In general
       If the Secretary establishes the program authorized under section 5211 of this title, then the Secretary shall establish a program to guarantee troubled assets originated or issued prior to March 14, 2008, including mortgage-backed securities.
    (2) Guarantees
       In establishing any program under this subsection, the Secretary may develop guarantees of troubled assets and the associated premiums for such guarantees. Such guarantees and premiums may be determined by category or class of the troubled assets to be guaranteed.
    (3) Extent of guarantee
       Upon request of a financial institution, the Secretary may guarantee the timely payment of principal of, and interest on, troubled assets in amounts not to exceed 100 percent of such payments. Such guarantee may be on such terms and conditions as are determined by the Secretary, provided that such terms and conditions are consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
  (b) Reports
     Not later than 90 days after October 3, 2008, the Secretary shall report to the appropriate committees of Congress on the program established under subsection (a).
  (c) Premiums
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall collect premiums from any financial institution participating in the program established under subsection (a). Such premiums shall be in an amount that the Secretary determines necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter and to provide sufficient reserves pursuant to paragraph (3).
    (2) Authority to base premiums on product risk
       In establishing any premium under paragraph (1), the Secretary may provide for variations in such rates according to the credit risk associated with the particular troubled asset that is being guaranteed. The Secretary shall publish the methodology for setting the premium for a class of troubled assets together with an explanation of the appropriateness of the class of assets for participation in the program established under this section. The methodology shall ensure that the premium is consistent with paragraph (3).
    (3) Minimum level
       The premiums referred to in paragraph (1) shall be set by the Secretary at a level necessary to create reserves sufficient to meet anticipated claims, based on an actuarial analysis, and to ensure that taxpayers are fully protected.
    (4) Adjustment to purchase authority
       The purchase authority limit in section 5225 of this title shall be reduced by an amount equal to the difference between the total of the outstanding guaranteed obligations and the balance in the Troubled Assets Insurance Financing Fund.
  (d) Troubled Assets Insurance Financing Fund
    (1) Deposits
       The Secretary shall deposit fees collected under this section into the Fund established under paragraph (2).
    (2) Establishment
       There is established a Troubled Assets Insurance Financing Fund that shall consist of the amounts collected pursuant to paragraph (1), and any balance in such fund shall be invested by the Secretary in United States Treasury securities, or kept in cash on hand or on deposit, as necessary.
    (3) Payments from Fund
       The Secretary shall make payments from amounts deposited in the Fund to fulfill obligations of the guarantees provided to financial institutions under subsection (a).
