  (a) Establishment
     There is hereby established the Congressional Oversight Panel (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Oversight Panel““) as an establishment in the legislative branch.
  (b) Duties
     The Oversight Panel shall review the current state of the financial markets and the regulatory system and submit the following reports to Congress:
    (1) Regular reports
      (A) In general
         Regular reports of the Oversight Panel shall include the following:
        (i) The use by the Secretary of authority under this chapter, including with respect to the use of contracting authority and administration of the program.
        (ii) The impact of purchases made under the \1\N chapter on the financial markets and financial institutions.
        (iii) The extent to which the information made available on transactions under the program has contributed to market transparency.
        (iv) The effectiveness of foreclosure mitigation efforts, and the effectiveness of the program from the standpoint of minimizing long-term costs to the taxpayers and maximizing the benefits for taxpayers.
      (B) Timing
         The reports required under this paragraph shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the first exercise by the Secretary of the authority under section 5211(a) or 5212 of this title, and every 30 days thereafter.
    (2) Special report on regulatory reform
       The Oversight Panel shall submit a special report on regulatory reform not later than January 20, 2009, analyzing the current state of the regulatory system and its effectiveness at overseeing the participants in the financial system and protecting consumers, and providing recommendations for improvement, including recommendations regarding whether any participants in the financial markets that are currently outside the regulatory system should become subject to the regulatory system, the rationale underlying such recommendation, and whether there are any gaps in existing consumer protections.
    (3) Special report on farm loan restructuring
       Not later than 60 days after May 20, 2009, the Oversight Panel shall submit a special report on farm loan restructuring that–
      (A) analyzes the state of the commercial farm credit markets and the use of loan restructuring as an alternative to foreclosure by recipients of financial assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program; and
      (B) includes an examination of and recommendation on the different methods for farm loan restructuring that could be used as part of a foreclosure mitigation program for farm loans made by recipients of financial assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, including any programs for direct loan restructuring or modification carried out by the Farm Service Agency of the Department of Agriculture, the farm credit system, and the Making Home Affordable Program of the Department of the Treasury.
  (c) Membership
    (1) In general
       The Oversight Panel shall consist of 5 members, as follows:
      (A) 1 member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
      (B) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
      (C) 1 member appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.
      (D) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.
      (E) 1 member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the majority leader of the Senate, after consultation with the minority leader of the Senate and the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
    (2) Pay
       Each member of the Oversight Panel shall each \2\N be paid at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Commission.
    (3) Prohibition of compensation of Federal employees
       Members of the Oversight Panel who are full-time officers or employees of the United States or Members of Congress may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the Oversight Panel.
    (4) Travel expenses
       Each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.
    (5) Quorum
       Four members of the Oversight Panel shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
    (6) Vacancies
       A vacancy on the Oversight Panel shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (7) Meetings
       The Oversight Panel shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or a majority of its members.
  (d) Staff
    (1) In general
       The Oversight Panel may appoint and fix the pay of any personnel as the Commission considers appropriate.
    (2) Experts and consultants
       The Oversight Panel may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5.
    (3) Staff of agencies
       Upon request of the Oversight Panel, the head of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Oversight Panel to assist it in carrying out its duties under this chapter.
  (e) Powers
    (1) Hearings and sessions
       The Oversight Panel may, for the purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the Panel considers appropriate and may administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing before it.
    (2) Powers of members and agents
       Any member or agent of the Oversight Panel may, if authorized by the Oversight Panel, take any action which the Oversight Panel is authorized to take by this section.
    (3) Obtaining official data
       The Oversight Panel may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States information necessary to enable it to carry out this section. Upon request of the Chairperson of the Oversight Panel, the head of that department or agency shall furnish that information to the Oversight Panel.
    (4) Reports
       The Oversight Panel shall receive and consider all reports required to be submitted to the Oversight Panel under this chapter.
  (f) Termination
     The Oversight Panel shall terminate 6 months after the termination date specified in section 5230 of this title.
  (g) Funding for expenses
    (1) Authorization of appropriations
       There is authorized to be appropriated to the Oversight Panel such sums as may be necessary for any fiscal year, half of which shall be derived from the applicable account of the House of Representatives, and half of which shall be derived from the contingent fund of the Senate.
    (2) Reimbursement of amounts
       An amount equal to the expenses of the Oversight Panel shall be promptly transferred by the Secretary, from time to time upon the presentment of a statement of such expenses by the Chairperson of the Oversight Panel, from funds made available to the Secretary under this chapter to the applicable fund of the House of Representatives and the contingent fund of the Senate, as appropriate, as reimbursement for amounts expended from such account and fund under paragraph (1).
