   In this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
  (1) Appropriate committees of Congress
     The term ””appropriate committees of Congress““ means–
    (A) the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
    (B) the Committee on Small Business, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Ways and Means, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  (2) Appropriate Federal banking agency
     The term ””appropriate Federal banking agency““–
    (A) has the same meaning as in section 1813(q) of this title; and
    (B) includes the National Credit Union Administration Board in the case of any credit union the deposits of which are insured in accordance with the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.].
  (3) Enrolled loan
     The term ””enrolled loan““ means a loan made by a financial institution lender that is enrolled by a participating State in an approved State capital access program in accordance with this chapter.
  (4) Federal contribution
     The term ””Federal contribution““ means the portion of the contribution made by a participating State to, or for the account of, an approved State program that is made with Federal funds allocated to the State by the Secretary under section 5702 of this title.
  (5) Financial institution
     The term ””financial institution““ means any insured depository institution, insured credit union, or community development financial institution, as those terms are each defined in section 4702 of this title.
  (6) Participating State
     The term ””participating State““ means any State that has been approved for participation in the Program under section 5703 of this title.
  (7) Program
     The term ””Program““ means the State Small Business Credit Initiative established under this chapter.
  (8) Qualifying loan or swap funding facility
     The term ””qualifying loan or swap funding facility““ means a contractual arrangement between a participating State and a private financial entity under which–
    (A) the participating State delivers funds to the entity as collateral;
    (B) the entity provides funding from the arrangement back to the participating State; and
    (C) the full amount of resulting funding from the arrangement, less any fees and other costs of the arrangement, is contributed to, or for the account of, an approved State program.
  (9) Reserve fund
     The term ””reserve fund““ means a fund, established by a participating State, dedicated to a particular financial institution lender, for the purposes of–
    (A) depositing all required premium charges paid by the financial institution lender and by each borrower receiving a loan under an approved State program from that financial institution lender;
    (B) depositing contributions made by the participating State, including State contributions made with Federal contributions; and
    (C) covering losses on enrolled loans by disbursing accumulated funds.
  (10) State
     The term ””State““ means–
    (A) a State of the United States;
    (B) the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands;
    (C) when designated by a State of the United States, a political subdivision of that State that the Secretary determines has the capacity to participate in the Program; and
    (D) under the circumstances described in section 5703(d) of this title, a municipality of a State of the United States to which the Secretary has given a special permission under section 5703(d) of this title.
  (11) State capital access program
     The term ””State capital access program““ means a program of a State that–
    (A) uses public resources to promote private access to credit; and
    (B) meets the eligibility criteria in section 5704(c) of this title.
  (12) State other credit support program
     The term ””State other credit support program““–
    (A) means a program of a State that–
      (i) uses public resources to promote private access to credit;
      (ii) is not a State capital access program; and
      (iii) meets the eligibility criteria in section 5705(c) of this title; and
    (B) includes, collateral support programs, loan participation programs, State-run venture capital fund programs, and credit guarantee programs.
  (13) State program
     The term ””State program““ means a State capital access program or a State other credit support program.
  (14) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Treasury.
