   Mississippi is divided into two judicial districts to be known as the northern and southern districts of Mississippi.
   Northern District
  (a) The northern district comprises four divisions.
    (1) Eastern division comprises the counties of Alcorn, Attala, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Clay, Itawamba, Lee, Lowndes, Monroe, Oktibbeha, Prentiss, Tishomingo, and Winston.
       Court for the eastern division shall be held at Aberdeen, Ackerman, and Corinth.
    (2) The western division comprises the counties of Benton, Calhoun, Grenada, Lafayette, Marshall, Montgomery, Pontotoc, Tippah, Union, Webster, and Yalobusha.
       Court for the Western division shall be held at Oxford.
    (3) The Delta division comprises the counties of Bolivar, Coahoma, De Soto, Panola, Quitman, Tallahatchie, Tate, and Tunica.
       Court for the Delta division shall be held at Clarksdale.
    (4) The Greenville division comprises the counties of Carroll, Humphreys, Leflore, Sunflower, and Washington.
       Court for the Greenville division shall be held at Greenville.
       Southern District
  (b) The southern district comprises five divisions.
    (1) The Jackson division comprises the counties of Amite, Copiah, Franklin, Hinds, Holmes, Leake, Lincoln, Madison, Pike, Rankin, Scott, Simpson, and Smith.
       Court for the Jackson division shall be held at Jackson.
    (2) The eastern division comprises the counties of Clarke, Jasper, Kemper, Lauderdale, Neshoba, Newton, Noxubee, and Wayne.
       Court for the eastern division shall be held at Meridian.
    (3) The western division comprises the counties of Adams, Claiborne, Issaquena, Jefferson, Sharkey, Warren, Wilkinson, and Yazoo.
       Court for the western division shall be held at Natchez and Vicksburg.
    (4) The southern division comprises the counties of George, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Pearl River, and Stone.
       Court for the southern division shall be held at Biloxi and Gulfport.
    (5) The Hattiesburg division comprises the counties of Covington, Forrest, Greene, Jefferson Davis, Jones, Lamar, Lawrence, Marion, Perry, and Walthall.
       Court for the Hattiesburg division shall be held at Hattiesburg.
