   Tennessee is divided into three judicial districts to be known as the Eastern, Middle, and Western Districts of Tennessee.
   Eastern District
  (a) The Eastern District comprises four divisions.
    (1) The Northern Division comprises the counties of Anderson, Blount, Campbell, Claiborne, Grainger, Jefferson, Knox, Loudon, Monroe, Morgan, Roane, Scott, Sevier, and Union.
       Court for the Northern Division shall be held at Knoxville.
    (2) The Northeastern Division comprises the counties of Carter, Cocke, Greene, Hamblen, Hancock, Hawkins, Johnson, Sullivan, Unicoi, and Washington.
       Court for the Northeastern Division shall be held at Greenville.
    (3) The Southern Division comprises the counties of Bledsoe, Bradley, Hamilton, McMinn, Marion, Meigs, Polk, Rhea, and Sequatchie.
       Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Chattanooga.
    (4) The Winchester Division comprises the counties of Bedford, Coffee, Franklin, Grundy, Lincoln, Moore, Van Buren, and Warren.
       Court for the Winchester Division shall be held at Winchester.
       Middle District
  (b) The Middle District comprises three divisions.
    (1) The Nashville Division comprises the counties of Cannon, Cheatham, Davidson, Dickson, Houston, Humphreys, Montgomery, Robertson, Rutherford, Stewart, Sumner, Trousdale, Williamson, and Wilson.
       Court for the Nashville Division shall be held at Nashville.
    (2) The Northeastern Division comprises the counties of Clay, Cumberland, De Kalb, Fentress, Jackson, Macon, Overton, Pickett, Putnam, Smith, and White.
       Court for the Northeastern Division shall be held at Cookeville.
    (3) The Columbia Division comprises the counties of Giles, Hickman, Lawrence, Lewis, Marshall, Maury, and Wayne.
       Court for the Columbia Division shall be held at Columbia.
       Western District
  (c) The Western District comprises two divisions.
    (1) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Benton, Carroll, Chester, Crockett, Decatur, Dyer, Gibson, Hardeman, Hardin, Haywood, Henderson, Henry, Lake, McNairy, Madison, Obion, Perry, and Weakley.
       The Eastern Division also includes the waters of Tennessee River to low-water mark on the eastern shore wherever such river forms the boundary between the western and middle districts from the north line of Alabama north to the point in Henry County, Tennessee, where the south boundary of Kentucky strikes the east bank of the river.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Jackson and Dyersburg.
    (2) The Western Division comprises the counties of Fayette, Lauderdale, Shelby, and Tipton.
       Court for the Western Division shall be held at Memphis.
       The district judge for the Eastern District in office on November 27, 1940, shall hold court in the Northern and Northeastern Divisions. The other judge of that district shall hold the terms of court in the Southern and Winchester Divisions. Each may appoint and remove all officers and employees of the court whose official headquarters are located in the divisions within which he holds court and whose appointments are vested by law in a district judge or chief judge of a district.
