   Texas is divided into four judicial districts to be known as the Northern, Southern, Eastern, and Western Districts of Texas.
   Northern District
  (a) The Northern District comprises seven divisions.
    (1) The Dallas Division comprises the counties of Dallas, Ellis, Hunt, Johnson, Kaufman, Navarro, and Rockwall.
       Court for the Dallas Division shall be held at Dallas.
    (2) The Fort Worth Division comprises the counties of Comanche, Erath, Hood, Jack, Palo Pinto, Parker, Tarrant, and Wise.
       Court for the Fort Worth Division shall be held at Fort Worth.
    (3) The Abilene Division comprises the counties of Callahan, Eastland, Fisher, Haskell, Howard, Jones, Mitchell, Nolan, Shackleford, Stephens, Stonewall, Taylor, and Throckmorton.
       Court for the Abilene Division shall be held at Abilene.
    (4) The San Angelo Division comprises the counties of Brown, Coke, Coleman, Concho, Crockett, Glasscock, Irion, Menard, Mills, Reagan, Runnels, Schleicher, Sterling, Sutton, and Tom Green.
       Court for the San Angelo Division shall be held at San Angelo.
    (5) The Amarillo Division comprises the counties of Armstrong, Brisco, Carson, Castro, Childress, Collingsworth, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Donley, Gray, Hall, Hansford, Hartley, Hemphill, Hutchinson, Lipscomb, Moore, Ochiltree, Oldham, Parmer, Potter, Randall, Roberts, Sherman, Swisher, and Wheeler.
       Court for the Amarillo Division shall be held at Amarillo.
    (6) The Wichita Falls Division comprises the counties of Archer, Baylor, Clay, Cottle, Foard, Hardeman, King, Knox, Montague, Wichita, Wilbarger, and Young.
       Court for the Wichita Falls Division shall be held at Wichita Falls.
    (7) The Lubbock Division comprises the counties of Bailey, Borden, Cochran, Crosby, Dawson, Dickens, Floyd, Gaines, Garza, Hale, Hockley, Kent, Lamb, Lubbock, Lynn, Motley, Scurry, Terry, and Yoakum.
       Court for the Lubbock Division shall be held at Lubbock.
       Southern District
  (b) The Southern District comprises seven divisions.
    (1) The Galveston Division comprises the counties of Brazoria, Chambers, Galveston, and Matagorda.
       Court for the Galveston Division shall be held at Galveston.
    (2) The Houston Division comprises the counties of Austin, Brazos, Colorado, Fayette, Fort Bend, Grimes, Harris, Madison, Montgomery, San Jacinto, Walker, Waller, and Wharton.
       Court for the Houston Division shall be held at Houston.
    (3) The Laredo Division comprises the counties of Jim Hogg, La Salle, McMullen, Webb, and Zapata.
       Court for the Laredo Division shall be held at Laredo.
    (4) The Brownsville Division comprises the counties of Cameron and Willacy.
       Court for the Brownsville Division shall be held at Brownsville.
    (5) The Victoria Division comprises the counties of Calhoun, DeWitt, Goliad, Jackson, Lavaca, Refugio, and Victoria.
       Court for the Victoria Division shall be held at Victoria.
    (6) The Corpus Christi Division comprises the counties of Aransas, Bee, Brooks, Duval, Jim Wells, Kenedy, Kleberg, Live Oak, Nueces, and San Patricio.
       Court for the Corpus Christi Division shall be held at Corpus Christi.
    (7) The McAllen Division comprises the counties of Hidalgo and Starr.
       Court for the McAllen Division shall be held at McAllen.
       Eastern District
  (c) The Eastern District comprises seven divisions.
    (1) The Tyler Division comprises the counties of Anderson, Cherokee, Gregg, Henderson, Panola, Rains, Rusk, Smith, Van Zandt, and Wood.
       Court for Tyler Division will be held at Tyler.
    (2) The Beaumont Division comprises the counties of Hardin, Jasper, Jefferson, Liberty, Newton, and Orange.
       Court for the Beaumont Division is to be held at Beaumont.
    (3) The Sherman Division comprises the counties of Collin, Cook, Denton, and Grayson.
       Court for the Sherman Division shall be held at Sherman.
    (4) The Paris Division comprises the counties of Delta, Fannin, Hopkins, Lamar, and Red River.
       Court for the Paris Division shall be held at Paris.
    (5) The Marshall Division comprises the counties of Camp, Cass, Harrison, Marion, Morris, and Upshur.
       Court for the Marshall Division shall be held at Marshall.
    (6) The Texarkana Division comprises the counties of Bowie, Franklin, and Titus.
       Court for the Texarkana Division shall be held at Texarkana.
    (7) The Lufkin Division comprises the counties of Angelina, Houston, Nacogdoches, Polk, Sabine, San Augustine, Shelby, Trinity, and Tyler.
       Court for the Lufkin Division shall be held at Lufkin.
       Western District
  (d) The Western District comprises seven divisions.
    (1) The Austin Division comprises the counties of Bastrop, Blanco, Burleson, Burnet, Caldwell, Gillespie, Hays, Kimble, Lampasas, Lee, Llano, Mason, McCulloch, San Saba, Travis, Washington, and Williamson.
       Court for the Austin Division shall be held at Austin.
    (2) The Waco Division comprises the counties of Bell, Bosque, Coryell, Falls, Freestone, Hamilton, Hill, Leon, Limestone, McLennan, Milam, Robertson, and Somervell.
       Court for the Waco Division shall be held at Waco.
    (3) The El Paso Division comprises the county of El Paso.
       Court for the El Paso Division shall be held at El Paso.
    (4) The San Antonio Division comprises the counties of Atascosa, Bandera, Bexar, Comal, Dimmit, Frio, Gonzales, Guadalupe, Karnes, Kendall, Kerr, Medina, Real, and Wilson.
       Court for the San Antonio Division shall be held at San Antonio.
    (5) The Del Rio Division comprises the counties of Edwards, Kinney, Maverick, Terrell, Uvalde, Val Verde, and Zavalla.
       Court for the Del Rio Division shall be held at Del Rio.
    (6) The Pecos Division comprises the counties of Brewster, Culberson, Jeff Davis, Hudspeth, Loving, Pecos, Presidio, Reeves, Ward and Winkler.
       Court for the Pecos Division shall be held at Pecos.
    (7) The Midland-Odessa Division comprises the counties of Andrews, Crane, Ector, Martin, Midland, and Upton.
       Court for the Midland-Odessa Division shall be held at Midland. Court may be held, in the discretion of the court, in Odessa, when courtroom facilities are made available at no expense to the Government.
