  (a)    (1) The United States marshals or deputy marshals shall routinely collect, and a court may tax as costs, fees for the following:
      (A) Serving a writ of possession, partition, execution, attachment in rem, or libel in admiralty, warrant, attachment, summons, complaints, or any other writ, order or process in any case or proceeding.
      (B) Serving a subpoena or summons for a witness or appraiser.
      (C) Forwarding any writ, order, or process to another judicial district for service.
      (D) The preparation of any notice of sale, proclamation in admiralty, or other public notice or bill of sale.
      (E) The keeping of attached property (including boats, vessels, or other property attached or libeled), actual expenses incurred, such as storage, moving, boat hire, or other special transportation, watchmen“s or keepers“ fees, insurance, and an hourly rate, including overtime, for each deputy marshal required for special services, such as guarding, inventorying, and moving.
      (F) Copies of writs or other papers furnished at the request of any party.
      (G) Necessary travel in serving or endeavoring to serve any process, writ, or order, except in the District of Columbia, with mileage to be computed from the place where service is returnable to the place of service or endeavor.
      (H) Overtime expenses incurred by deputy marshals in the course of serving or executing civil process.
    (2) The marshals shall collect, in advance, a deposit to cover the initial expenses for special services required under paragraph (1)(E), and periodically thereafter such amounts as may be necessary to pay such expenses until the litigation is concluded. This paragraph applies to all private litigants, including seamen proceeding pursuant to section 1916 of this title.
    (3) For purposes of paragraph (1)(G), if two or more services or endeavors, or if an endeavor and a service, are made in behalf of the same party in the same case on the same trip, mileage shall be computed to the place of service or endeavor which is most remote from the place where service is returnable, adding thereto any additional mileage traveled in serving or endeavoring to serve in behalf of the party. If two or more writs of any kind, required to be served in behalf of the same party on the same person in the same case or proceeding, may be served at the same time, mileage on only one such writ shall be collected.
  (b) The Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe by regulation the fees to be taxed and collected under subsection (a). Such fees shall, to the extent practicable, reflect the actual and reasonable cost of the service provided.
  (c)    (1) The United States Marshals Service shall collect a commission of 3 percent of the first $1,000 collected and 1\1/2\ percent on the excess of any sum over $1,000, for seizing or levying on property (including seizures in admiralty), disposing of such property by sale, setoff, or otherwise, and receiving and paying over money, except that the amount of commission shall be within the range set by the Attorney General. if \1\N the property is not disposed of by marshal“s sale, the commission shall be in such amount, within the range set by the Attorney General, as may be allowed by the court. In any case in which the vessel or other property is sold by a public auctioneer, or by some party other than a marshal or deputy marshal, the commission authorized under this subsection shall be reduced by the amount paid to such auctioneer or other party. This subsection applies to any judicially ordered sale or execution sale, without regard to whether the judicial order of sale constitutes a seizure or levy within the meaning of State law. This subsection shall not apply to any seizure, forfeiture, sale, or other disposition of property pursuant to the applicable provisions of law amended by the Comprehensive Forfeiture Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 2040).
    (2) The Attorney General shall prescribe from time to time regulations which establish a minimum and maximum amount for the commission collected under paragraph (1).
  (d) The United States marshals may require a deposit to cover the fees and expenses prescribed under this section.
  (e) Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, the United States Marshals Service is authorized, to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts–
    (1) to credit to such Service“s appropriation all fees, commissions, and expenses collected by such Service for–
      (A) the service of civil process, including complaints, summonses, subpoenas, and similar process; and
      (B) seizures, levies, and sales associated with judicial orders of execution; and
    (2) to use such credited amounts for the purpose of carrying out such activities.
