   As used in this chapter–
  (a) ””Addict““ means any individual who habitually uses any narcotic drug as defined by section 102(16) \1\N of the Controlled Substances Act so as to endanger the public morals, health, safety, or welfare, or who is so far addicted to the use of such narcotic drugs as to have lost the power of self-control with reference to his addiction.
  (b) ””Surgeon General““ means the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service.
  (c) ””Crime of violence““ includes voluntary manslaughter, murder, rape, mayhem, kidnaping, robbery, burglary or housebreaking in the nighttime, extortion accompanied by threats of violence, assault with a dangerous weapon or assault with intent to commit any offense punishable by imprisonment for more than one year, arson punishable as a felony, or an attempt or conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing offenses.
  (d) ””Treatment““ includes confinement and treatment in an institution and under supervised aftercare in the community and includes, but not limited to, medical, educational, social, psychological, and vocational services, corrective and preventive guidance and training, and other rehabilitative services designed to protect the public and benefit the addict by eliminating his dependence on addicting drugs, or by controlling his dependence, and his susceptibility to addiction.
  (e) ””Felony““ includes any offense in violation of a law of the United States classified as a felony under section 3581 of title 18 of the United States Code, and further includes any offense in violation of a law of any State, any possession or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Canal Zone, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which at the time of the offense was classified as a felony by the law of the place where that offense was committed.
  (f) ””Conviction““ and ””convicted““ mean the final judgment on a verdict or finding of guilty, a plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere, but do not include a final judgment which has been expunged by pardon, reversed, set aside or otherwise rendered nugatory.
  (g) ””Eligible individual““ means any individual who is charged with an offense against the United States, but does not include–
    (1) an individual charged with a crime of violence.
    (2) an individual charged with unlawfully importing, selling, or conspiring to import or sell, a narcotic drug.
    (3) an individual against whom there is pending a prior charge of a felony which has not been finally determined or who is on probation or whose sentence following conviction on such a charge, including any time on parole, supervised release, or mandatory release, has not been fully served: T3ProvidedK, That an individual on probation, parole, supervised release, or mandatory release shall be included if the authority authorized to require his return to custody consents to his commitment.
    (4) an individual who has been convicted of a felony on two or more occasions.
    (5) an individual who has been civilly committed under this Act, under the District of Columbia Code, or any State proceeding because of narcotic addiction on three or more occasions.
