  (a) The Attorney General shall appoint one United States trustee for each of the following regions composed of Federal judicial districts (without regard to section 451):
    (1) The judicial districts established for the States of Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island.
    (2) The judicial districts established for the States of Connecticut, New York, and Vermont.
    (3) The judicial districts established for the States of Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
    (4) The judicial districts established for the States of Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia and for the District of Columbia.
    (5) The judicial districts established for the States of Louisiana and Mississippi.
    (6) The Northern District of Texas and the Eastern District of Texas.
    (7) The Southern District of Texas and the Western District of Texas.
    (8) The judicial districts established for the States of Kentucky and Tennessee.
    (9) The judicial districts established for the States of Michigan and Ohio.
    (10) The Central District of Illinois and the Southern District of Illinois; and the judicial districts established for the State of Indiana.
    (11) The Northern District of Illinois; and the judicial districts established for the State of Wisconsin.
    (12) The judicial districts established for the States of Minnesota, Iowa, North Dakota, and South Dakota.
    (13) The judicial districts established for the States of Arkansas, Nebraska, and Missouri.
    (14) The District of Arizona.
    (15) The Southern District of California; and the judicial districts established for the State of Hawaii, and for Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (16) The Central District of California.
    (17) The Eastern District of California and the Northern District of California; and the judicial district established for the State of Nevada.
    (18) The judicial districts established for the States of Alaska, Idaho (exclusive of Yellowstone National Park), Montana (exclusive of Yellowstone National Park), Oregon, and Washington.
    (19) The judicial districts established for the States of Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming (including those portions of Yellowstone National Park situated in the States of Montana and Idaho).
    (20) The judicial districts established for the States of Kansas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma.
    (21) The judicial districts established for the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia and for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
  (b) Each United States trustee shall be appointed for a term of five years. On the expiration of his term, a United States trustee shall continue to perform the duties of his office until his successor is appointed and qualifies.
  (c) Each United States trustee is subject to removal by the Attorney General.
