  (a) T4Establishment and Availability of FundK.–There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a special fund to be known as the ””Judiciary Information Technology Fund““ (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Fund““). Moneys in the Fund shall be available to the Director without fiscal year limitation for the procurement (by lease, purchase, exchange, transfer, or otherwise) of information technology equipment for program activities included in the courts of appeals, district courts, and other judicial services account of the judicial branch of the United States. The Fund shall also be available for expenses, including personal services, support personnel in the courts and in the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, and other costs, for the effective management, coordination, operation, and use of information technology equipment purchased by the Fund. In addition, all agencies of the judiciary may make deposits into the Fund to meet their information technology needs in accordance with subsections (b) and (c)(2).
  (b) T4Plan for Meeting Information Technology Needs.–
    (1) T4Development of planK.–The Director shall develop and annually revise, with the approval of the Judicial Conference of the United States, a long range plan for meeting the information technology equipment needs of the activities funded under subsection (a) and shall include an annual estimate of any fees that may be collected under section 404 of the Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1991 (Public Law 101–515; 104 Stat. 2133). Such plan and revisions shall be submitted to Congress.
    (2) T4Expenditures consistent with planK.–The Director may use amounts in the Fund to procure information technology equipment for the activities funded under subsection (a) only in accordance with the plan developed under paragraph (1).
  (c) T4Deposits Into Fund.–
    (1) T4DepositsK.–There shall be deposited in the Fund–
      (A) all proceeds resulting from activities conducted under subsection (a), including net proceeds of disposal of excess or surplus property, all fees collected after the date of the enactment of the Judicial Amendments Act of 1994 by the judiciary under section 404 of the Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1991 (Public Law 101–515; 104 Stat. 2133) and receipts from carriers and others for loss of or damage to property;
      (B) amounts available for activities described in subsection (a) from funds appropriated to the judiciary; and
      (C) any advances and reimbursements required by paragraph (2).
    (2) T4Advances and reimbursementsK.–Whenever the Director procures information technology equipment for any entity in the judicial branch other than the courts or the Administrative Office, that entity shall advance or reimburse the Fund, whichever the Director considers appropriate, for the costs of the information technology equipment, from appropriations available to that entity.
  (d) T4Authorization of AppropriationsK.–There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund for any fiscal year such sums as are required to supplement amounts deposited under subsection (c) in order to conduct activities under subsection (a).
  (e) T4Contract Authority.–
    (1) T4For each fiscal yearK.–In fiscal year 1990, and in each succeeding fiscal year, the Director may enter into contracts for the procurement of information technology equipment in amounts which, in the aggregate, do not exceed amounts estimated to be collected under subsection (c) for that fiscal year in advance of the availability of amounts in the Fund for such contracts.
    (2) T4Multiyear contractsK.–In conducting activities under subsection (a), the Director is authorized to enter into multiyear contracts for information technology equipment for periods of not more than five years for any contract, if–
      (A) funds are available and adequate for payment of the costs of such contract for the first fiscal year and for payment of any costs of cancellation or termination of the contract;
      (B) such contract is awarded on a fully competitive basis; and
      (C) the Director determines that–
        (i) the need for the information technology equipment being provided will continue over the period of the contract; and
        (ii) the use of the multi-year contract will yield substantial cost savings when compared with other methods of providing the necessary resources.
    (3) T4Cancellation costs of multiyear contractK.–Any cancellation costs incurred with respect to a contract entered into under paragraph (2) shall be paid from currently available amounts in the Fund.
  (f) T4Applicability of Procurement StatuteK.–The procurement of information technology equipment under this section shall be conducted in compliance with the provisions of law, policies, and regulations applicable to executive agencies under division E of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.).
  (g) T4Authority of Administrator of General ServicesK.–Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Administrator of General Services under section 201 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 481).
  (h) T4Annual Report.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Director shall submit to the Congress an annual report on the operation of the Fund, including on the inventory, use, and acquisition of information technology equipment from the Fund and the consistency of such acquisition with the plan prepared under subsection (b). The report shall set forth the amounts deposited into the Fund under subsection (c).
    (2) T4Additional contents of reportK.–The annual report submitted under this subsection shall include–
      (A) the specific actions taken and the progress made to improve the plan developed under subsection (b) and the long range automation plan and strategic business plan developed under subsection (k); and
      (B) a comparison of planned Fund expenditures and accomplishments with actual Fund expenditures and accomplishments, and the reasons for any delays in scheduled systems development, or budget overruns.
    (3) T4Report in year of termination of authorityK.–The annual report submitted under this subsection for any year in which the authority for this section is to terminate under subsection (m),\1\N shall be submitted no later than 9 months before the date of such termination.
      (i) T4ReprogrammingK.–The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, under the supervision of the Judicial Conference of the United States, may transfer amounts up to $1,000,000 from the Fund into the account to which the funds were originally appropriated. Any amounts transferred from the Fund in excess of $1,000,000 in any fiscal year may only be transferred by following reprogramming procedures in compliance with section 606 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public Law 100–459; 102 Stat. 2227).
      (j) T4Appropriations Into the FundK.–If the budget request of the Judiciary \2\N is appropriated in full, the amount deposited into the Fund during any fiscal year under the authority of subparagraph (c)(1)(B) will be the same as the amount of funds requested by the Judiciary \2\ for activities described in subsection (a). If an amount to be deposited is not specified in statute by Congress and if the full request is not appropriated, the amount to be deposited under (c)(1)(B) \3\N will be set by the spending priorities established by the Judicial Conference.
      (k) T4Long Range Management and Business PlansK.–The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Court shall–
        (1) develop an overall strategic business plan which would identify the judiciary“s missions, goals, and objectives;
        (2) develop a long range automation plan based on the strategic business plan and user needs assessments;
        (3) establish effective Administrative Office oversight of court automation efforts to ensure the effective operation of existing systems and control over developments of future systems;
        (4) expedite efforts to complete the development and implementation of life cycle management standards;
        (5) utilize the standards in developing the next generation of case management and financial systems; and
        (6) assess the current utilization and future user requirements of the data communications network.
