   Alabama is divided into three judicial districts to be known as the Northern, Middle, and Southern Districts of Alabama.
   Northern District
  (a) The Northern District comprises seven divisions.
    (1) The Northwestern Division comprises the counties of Colbert, Franklin, and Lauderdale.
       Court for the Northwestern Division shall be held at Florence.
    (2) The Northeastern Division comprises the counties of Cullman, Jackson, Lawrence, Limestone, Madison, and Morgan.
       Court for the Northeastern Division shall be held at Huntsville and Decatur.
    (3) The Southern Division comprises the counties of Blount, Jefferson, and Shelby.
       Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Birmingham.
    (4) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Calhoun, Clay, Cleburne, and Talladega.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Anniston.
    (5) The Western Division comprises the counties of Bibb, Greene, Pickens, Sumter, and Tuscaloosa.
       Court for the Western Division shall be held at Tuscaloosa.
    (6) The Middle Division comprises the counties of Cherokee, De Kalb, Etowah, Marshall, and Saint Clair.
       Court for the Middle Division shall be held at Gadsden.
    (7) The Jasper Division comprises the counties of Fayette, Lamar, Marion, Walker, and Winston.
       Court for the Jasper Division shall be held at Jasper.
       Middle District
  (b) The Middle District comprises three divisions.
    (1) The Northern Division comprises the counties of Autauga, Barbour, Bullock, Butler, Chilton, Coosa, Covington, Crenshaw, Elmore, Lowndes, Montgomery, and Pike.
       Court for the Northern Division shall be held at Montgomery.
    (2) The Southern Division comprises the counties of Coffee, Dale, Geneva, Henry, and Houston.
       Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Dothan.
    (3) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Chambers, Lee, Macon, Randolph, Russell, and Tallapoosa.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Opelika.
       Southern District
  (c) The Southern District comprises two divisions.
    (1) The Northern Division comprises the counties of Dallas, Hale, Marengo, Perry, and Wilcox.
       Court for the Northern Division shall be held at Selma.
    (2) The Southern Division comprises the counties of Baldwin, Choctaw, Clarke, Conecuh, Escambia, Mobile, Monroe, and Washington.
       Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Mobile.
