   Arkansas is divided into two judicial districts to be known as the Eastern and Western Districts of Arkansas.
   Eastern District
  (a) The Eastern District comprises five divisions.
    (1) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Cross, Lee, Monroe, Phillips, Saint Francis, and Woodruff.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Helena.
    (2) The Western Division comprises the counties of Conway, Faulkner, Lonoke, Perry, Pope, Prairie, Pulaski, Saline, Van Buren, White and Yell.
       Court for the Western Division shall be held at Little Rock.
    (3) The Pine Bluff Division comprises the counties of Arkansas, Chicot, Cleveland, Dallas, Desha, Drew, Grant, Jefferson, and Lincoln.
       Court for the Pine Bluff Division shall be held at Pine Bluff.
    (4) The Northern Division comprises the counties of Cleburne, Fulton, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Sharp, and Stone.
       Court for the Northern Division shall be held at Batesville.
    (5) The Jonesboro Division comprises the counties of Clay, Craighead, Crittenden, Greene, Lawrence, Mississippi, Poinsett, and Randolph.
       Court for the Jonesboro Division shall be held at Jonesboro.
       Western District
  (b) The Western District comprises six divisions.
    (1) The Texarkana Division comprises the counties of Hempstead, Howard, Lafayette, Little River, Miller, Nevada, and Sevier.
       Court for the Texarkana Division shall be held at Texarkana.
    (2) The El Dorado Division comprises the counties of Ashley, Bradley, Calhoun, Columbia, Ouachita, and Union.
       Court for the El Dorado Division shall be held at El Dorado.
    (3) The Fort Smith Division comprises the counties of Crawford, Franklin, Johnson, Logan, Polk, Scott, and Sebastian.
       Court for the Fort Smith Division shall be held at Fort Smith.
    (4) The Harrison Division comprises the counties of Baxter, Boone, Carroll, Marion, Newton, and Searcy.
       Court for the Harrison Division shall be held at Harrison.
    (5) The Fayetteville Division comprises the counties of Benton, Madison, and Washington.
       Court for the Fayetteville Division shall be held at Fayetteville.
    (6) The Hot Springs Division comprises the counties of Clark, Garland, Hot Springs, Montgomery, and Pike.
       Court for the Hot Springs Division shall be held at Hot Springs.
