   Indiana is divided into two judicial districts to be known as the Northern and Southern Districts of Indiana.
   Northern District
  (a) The Northern District comprises three divisions.
    (1) The Fort Wayne Division comprises the counties of Adams, Allen, Blackford, De Kalb, Grant, Huntington, Jay, Lagrange, Noble, Steuben, Wells, and Whitley.
       Court for the Fort Wayne Division shall be held at Fort Wayne.
    (2) The South Bend Division comprises the counties of Cass, Elkhart, Fulton, Kosciusko, La Porte, Marshall, Miami, Pulaski, St. Joseph, Starke, and Wabash.
       Court for the South Bend Division shall be held at South Bend.
    (3) The Hammond Division comprises the counties of Benton, Carroll, Jasper, Lake, Newton, Porter, Tippecanoe, Warren, and White.
       Court for the Hammond Division shall be held at Hammond and Lafayette.
       Southern District
  (b) The Southern District comprises four divisions.
    (1) The Indianapolis Division comprises the counties of Bartholomew, Boone, Brown, Clinton, Decatur, Delaware, Fayette, Fountain, Franklin, Hamilton, Hancock, Hendricks, Henry, Howard, Johnson, Madison, Marion, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Randolph, Rush, Shelby, Tipton, Union, and Wayne.
       Court for the Indianapolis Division shall be held at Indianapolis and Richmond.
    (2) The Terre Haute Division comprises the counties of Clay, Greene, Knox, Owen, Parke, Putnam, Sullivan, Vermilion, and Vigo.
       Court for the Terre Haute Division shall be held at Terre Haute.
    (3) The Evansville Division comprises the counties of Davies, Dubois, Gibson, Martin, Perry, Pike, Posey, Spencer, Vanderburgh, and Warrick.
       Court for the Evansville Division shall be held at Evansville.
    (4) The New Albany Division comprises the counties of Clark, Crawford, Dearborn, Floyd, Harrison, Jackson, Jefferson, Jennings, Lawrence, Ohio, Orange, Ripley, Scott, Switzerland, and Washington.
       Court for the New Albany Division shall be held at New Albany.
