   Iowa is divided into two judicial districts to be known as the Northern and Southern Districts of Iowa.
   Northern District
  (a) The Northern District comprises four divisions.
    (1) The Cedar Rapids Division comprises the counties of Benton, Cedar, Grundy, Hardin, Iowa, Jones, Linn, and Tama.
       Court for the Cedar Rapids Division shall be held at Cedar Rapids.
    (2) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Allamakee, Black Hawk, Bremer, Buchanan, Chickasaw, Clayton, Delaware, Dubuque, Fayette, Floyd, Howard, Jackson, Mitchell, and Winneshiek.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Dubuque and Waterloo.
    (3) The Western Division comprises the counties of Buena Vista, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Dickinson, Ida, Lyon, Monona, O“Brien, Osceola, Plymouth, Sac, Sioux, and Woodbury.
       Court for the Western Division shall be held at Sioux City.
    (4) The Central Division comprises the counties of Butler, Calhoun, Carroll, Cerro Gordo, Emmet, Franklin, Hamilton, Hancock, Humboldt, Kossuth, Palo Alto, Pocahontas, Webster, Winnebago, Worth and Wright.
       Court for the Central Division shall be held at Fort Dodge and Mason City.
       Southern District
  (b) The Southern District comprises six divisions.
    (1) The Central Division comprises the counties of Boone, Dallas, Greene, Guthrie, Jasper, Madison, Marion, Marshall, Polk, Poweshiek, Story, and Warren.
       Court for the Central Division shall be held at Des Moines.
    (2) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Des Moines, Henry, Lee, Louisa, and Van Buren.
       Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Keokuk.
    (3) The Western Division comprises the counties of Audubon, Cass, Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Montgomery, Page, Pottawattamie, and Shelby.
       Court for the Western Division shall be held at Council Bluffs.
    (4) The Southern Division comprises the counties of Adair, Adams, Clarke, Decatur, Lucas, Ringgold, Taylor, Union, and Wayne.
       Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Creston.
    (5) The Davenport Division comprises the counties of Clinton, Johnson, Muscatine, Scott, and Washington.
       Court for the Davenport Division shall be held at Davenport.
    (6) The Ottumwa Division comprises the counties of Appanoose, Davis, Jefferson, Keokuk, Mahaska, Monroe, and Wapello.
       Court for the Ottumwa Division shall be held at Ottumwa.
