  (a) T4In GeneralK.–For purposes of this title, the Federal-aid systems are the Interstate System and the National Highway System.
  (b) T4National Highway System.–
    (1) T4PurposeK.–The purpose of the National Highway System is to provide an interconnected system of principal arterial routes which will serve major population centers, international border crossings, ports, airports, public transportation facilities, and other intermodal transportation facilities and other major travel destinations; meet national defense requirements; and serve interstate and interregional travel.
    (2) T4ComponentsK.–The National Highway System shall consist of the following:
      (A) Highways designated as part of the Interstate System under subsection (e) and section 139 of this title.
      (B) Other urban and rural principal arterials and highways (including toll facilities) which provide motor vehicle access between such an arterial and a major port, airport, public transportation facility, or other intermodal transportation facility. The States, in cooperation with local and regional officials, shall propose to the Secretary arterials and highways for designation to the National Highway System under this paragraph. In urbanized areas, the local officials shall act through the metropolitan planning organizations designated for such areas under section 134 of this title. The routes on the National Highway System, as shown on the map submitted by the Secretary to the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate in 1991, illustrating the National Highway System, shall serve as the basis for the States in proposing arterials and highways for designation to such system. The Secretary may modify or revise such proposals and submit such modified or revised proposals to Congress for approval in accordance with paragraph (3).
      (C) A strategic highway network which is a network of highways which are important to the United States strategic defense policy and which provide defense access, continuity, and emergency capabilities for the movement of personnel, materiels, and equipment in both peace time and war time. Such highways may include highways on and off the Interstate System and shall be designated by the Secretary in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies and the States and be subject to approval by Congress in accordance with paragraph (3).
      (D) Major strategic highway network connectors which are highways that provide motor vehicle access between major military installations and highways which are part of the strategic highway network. Such highways shall be designated by the Secretary in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies and the States and subject to approval by Congress in accordance with paragraph (3).
    (3) T4Approval of designations.–
      (A) T4Proposed designationsK.–Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit for approval to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives a proposed National Highway System with a list and description of highways proposed to be designated to the National Highway System under this subsection and a map showing such proposed designations. In preparing the proposed system, the Secretary shall consult appropriate local officials and shall use the functional reclassification of roads and streets carried out under subsection (c) of section 1006 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991.
      (B) T4Approval of congress requiredK.–After September 30, 1995, no funds made available for carrying out this title may be apportioned for the National Highway System or the Interstate maintenance program under this title unless a law has been approved designating the National Highway System.
      (C) T4Maximum mileageK.–For purposes of proposing highways for designation to the National Highway System, the mileage of highways on the National Highway System shall not exceed 155,000 miles; except that the Secretary may increase or decrease such maximum mileage by not to exceed 15 percent.
      (D) T4Equitable allocations of highway mileageK.–In proposing highways for designation to the National Highway System, the Secretary shall provide for equitable allocation of highway mileage among the States.
    (4) T4Interim systemK.–For fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995, highways classified as principal arterials by the States shall be treated as being on the National Highway System for purposes of this title.
       [(c), (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 102–240, title I, § 1006(b)(1), Dec. 18, 1991, 105 Stat. 1925.]
  (e) T4Interstate System.–
    (1) T4Designation; mileage limitationK.–The Interstate System shall be designated within the United States, including the District of Columbia, and, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, it shall not exceed forty-one thousand miles in total extent. It shall be so located as to connect by routes, as direct as practicable, the principal metropolitan areas, cities, and industrial centers, to serve the national defense, and to the greatest extent possible, to connect at suitable border points with routes of continental importance in the Dominion of Canada and the Republic of Mexico. The routes of this system, to the greatest extent possible, shall be selected by joint action of the State highway departments of each State and the adjoining States, subject to the approval by the Secretary as provided in subsection (f) of this section. All highways or routes included in the Interstate System as finally approved, if not already coincident with the primary system, shall be added to said system without regard to the mileage limitation set forth in subsection (b) of this section. This system may be located both in rural and urban areas.
    (2) T4ModificationsK.–In addition to the mileage authorized by the first sentence of paragraph (1) of this subsection, there is hereby authorized additional mileage for the Interstate System of five hundred miles, to be used in making modifications or revisions in the Interstate System as provided in this paragraph. Upon the request of a State highway department the Secretary may withdraw his approval of any route or portion thereof on the Interstate System within that State selected and approved in accordance with this title, if he determines that such route or portion thereof is not essential to completion of a unified and connected Interstate System (including urban routes necessary for metropolitan transportation) and will not be constructed as a part of the Interstate System, and if he receives assurances that the State does not intend to construct a toll road in the traffic corridor which would be served by such route or portion thereof. After the Secretary has withdrawn his approval of any such route or portion thereof the mileage of such route or portion thereof and the additional mileage authorized by the first sentence of this paragraph shall be available for the designation of interstate routes or portions thereof as provided in this subsection. The provisions of this title applicable to the Interstate System shall apply to all mileage designated under the third sentence of this paragraph. The Secretary shall not designate any Interstate route or portion thereof under authority of this paragraph after the date of enactment of the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1978.
    (3) T4Additional mileage for improved efficiencyK.–In addition to the mileage authorized by paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, there is hereby authorized additional mileage of not to exceed 1,500 miles for the designation of routes in the same manner as set forth in paragraph (1), in order to improve the efficiency and service of the Interstate System to better accomplish the purposes of that System.
    (4) T4Interstate substitute program.–
      (A) T4Withdrawal of approvalK.–Upon the joint request of a State Governor and the local governments concerned, the Secretary may withdraw approval of any route or portion thereof on the Interstate System which was selected and approved in accordance with this title, if the Secretary determines that such route or portion thereof is not essential to completion of a unified and connected Interstate System and if the Secretary receives assurances that the State does not intend to construct a toll road in the traffic corridor which would be served by the route or portion thereof.
      (B) T4Substitute projectsK.–When the Secretary withdraws approval under this paragraph, a sum equal to the Federal share of the cost to complete the withdrawn route or portion thereof, as that cost is included in the latest Interstate System cost estimate approved by Congress, or up to and including the 1983 interstate cost estimate, whichever is earlier, subject to increase or decrease, as determined by the Secretary based on changes in construction costs of the withdrawn route or portion thereof as of the date of approval of each substitute project under this paragraph, or the date of approval of the 1983 interstate cost estimate, whichever is earlier, shall be available to the Secretary to incur obligations for the Federal share of either public mass transit projects involving the construction of fixed rail facilities or the purchase of passenger equipment including rolling stock, for any mode of mass transit, or both, or highway construction projects on any public road, or both, which will serve the area or areas from which the interstate route or portion thereof was withdrawn, which are selected by the responsible local officials of the area or areas to be served, and which are selected by the Governor or the Governors of the State or the States in which the withdrawn route was located if the withdrawn route was not within an urbanized area or did not pass through and connect urbanized areas, and which are submitted by the Governors of the States in which the withdrawn route was located. Each project constructed under this paragraph on a Federal-aid system shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to such system. Each project constructed under this paragraph not on a Federal-aid system shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to projects on the Federal-aid secondary system.
      (C) T4Deadline for withdrawalK.–The Secretary shall not approve any withdrawal of a route under this paragraph after September 30, 1983–
        (i) except that with respect to any route which on November 6, 1978, is under judicial injunction prohibiting its construction the Secretary may approve withdrawals until September 30, 1986, and
        (ii) except that with respect to any route which on May 12, 1982, is under judicial injunction prohibiting its construction, the Secretary may approve withdrawals on such route until September 30, 1985.
      (D) T4Project approval; federal shareK.–Approval by the Secretary of the plans, specifications, and estimates for a substitute project shall be deemed to be a contractual obligation of the Federal Government. The Federal share of each substitute project shall not exceed 85 percent of the cost thereof.
      (E) T4Availability of funds for substitute projects.–
        (i) T4Time periodK.–The sums apportioned and the sums allocated under this paragraph for public mass transit projects and for highway construction projects in a State shall remain available for obligation in such State for the fiscal year for which apportioned or allocated, as the case may be, and for the succeeding fiscal year. In the case of funds authorized to be appropriated for substitute transit projects under this paragraph for fiscal year 1993 and for substitute highway projects under this paragraph for fiscal year 1995, such funds shall remain available until expended.
        (ii) T4Reapportionment or reallocationK.–Any sums which are apportioned or allocated to a State and are unobligated (other than an amount which, by itself, is insufficient to pay the Federal share of the cost of a substitute project which has been submitted by the State to the Secretary for approval) at the end of the period of availability established by clause (i) shall be apportioned or allocated, as the case may be, among those States which have obligated all sums (other than such an amount) apportioned or allocated, as the case may be, to them. Such reapportionments shall be in accordance with the latest approved or adjusted estimate of the cost of completing substitute projects, and such reallocations shall be at the discretion of the Secretary.
      (F) T4Administration of transit fundsK.–The sums obligated for mass transit projects under this paragraph shall become part of, and be administered through, the Urban Mass Transportation Fund.
      (G) T4Authorization of appropriations for highway projectsK.–For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1983, $257,000,000 shall be available out of the Highway Trust Fund for expenditure at the discretion of the Secretary for projects under highway assistance programs. There shall be available, out of the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to the Secretary for expenditure under this paragraph for projects under highway assistance programs $700,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1984 and 1985, $693,825,000 for fiscal year 1986, $740,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991,\1\N $240,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995. Such sums may be obligated for transit substitute projects under this paragraph.
      (H) T4Distribution of substitute highway funds.–
        (i) T4Between discretionary and apportioned programsK.–Subject to section 149(d) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1987, 25 percent of the funds made available by subparagraph (G) for each of fiscal years 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991 for substitute highway projects under this paragraph shall be distributed at the discretion of the Secretary. The remaining 75 percent of such funds shall be apportioned in accordance with cost estimates approved by Congress or adjusted by the Secretary. For each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995, all funds made available by subparagraph (G) shall be apportioned in accordance with cost estimates adjusted by the Secretary.
        (ii) T4Fiscal years 1985, 1986, and 1987 apportionmentsK.–The Secretary shall make a revised estimate of the cost of completing substitute highway projects under this paragraph and transmit the same to the Senate and the House of Representatives within 10 days subsequent to January 2, 1984, and upon approval by Congress, the Secretary shall use the Federal share of such approved estimate in making apportionments for substitute highway projects for fiscal years 1985, 1986, and 1987.
        (iii) T4Fiscal years 1988–1995 apportionmentsK.–The Secretary shall make a revised estimate of the cost of completing substitute highway projects under this paragraph and transmit the same to the Senate and the House of Representatives as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1987. Upon approval by Congress, the Secretary shall use the Federal share of such approved estimate in making apportionments for substitute highway projects for fiscal year 1988. If such estimate is not approved by Congress by September 30, 1987, the Secretary shall adjust such estimate in accordance with this clause and use the Federal share of the adjusted estimate in making apportionments for fiscal year 1988. The Secretary shall adjust such estimate annually thereafter in accordance with this clause and shall use the Federal share of such adjusted estimate in making apportionments for substitute highway projects for fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995. The adjustments required by this clause shall reflect previous withdrawals of interstate segments, changes in State estimates in the division of funds between substitute highway and transit projects, amounts made available in prior fiscal years, and the availability and reapportionment of funds under subparagraph (E).
          (I) T4Authorization of appropriations for transit projectsK.–There are authorized to be appropriated for liquidation of obligations incurred for substitute transit projects under this paragraph the sums provided in section 4(g) \2\N of the Federal Transit Act.
          (J) T4Distribution of substitute transit funds.–
            (i) T4Between discretionary and apportioned programsK.–Fifty percent of the funds appropriated for each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1983, and ending before October 1, 1991 \3\N for carrying out substitute transit projects under this paragraph shall be distributed at the discretion of the Secretary. The remaining 50 percent of such funds shall be apportioned in accordance with cost estimates approved by Congress or adjusted by the Secretary. 100 percent of funds appropriated for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 shall be apportioned in accordance with cost estimates adjusted by the Secretary.
            (ii) T4Fiscal years 1985, 1986, and 1987 apportionmentsK.–The Secretary shall make a revised estimate of the cost of completing substitute transit projects under this paragraph and transmit the same to the Senate and the House of Representatives within 10 days subsequent to January 2, 1984, and upon approval by Congress, the Secretary shall use the Federal share of such approved estimate in making apportionments for substitute transit projects for fiscal years 1985, 1986, and 1987.
            (iii) T4Fiscal years 1988–1993 apportionmentsK.–The Secretary shall make a revised estimate of the cost of completing substitute transit projects under this paragraph and transmit the same to the Senate and the House of Representatives as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1987. Upon approval by Congress, the Secretary shall use the Federal share of such approved estimate in making apportionments for substitute transit projects for fiscal year 1988. If such estimate is not approved by Congress by September 30, 1987, the Secretary shall adjust such estimate in accordance with this clause and use the Federal share of the adjusted estimate in making apportionments for fiscal year 1988. The Secretary shall adjust such estimate annually thereafter in accordance with this clause and shall use the Federal share of such adjusted estimate in making apportionments for substitute transit projects for fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993. The adjustments required by this clause shall reflect previous withdrawals of Interstate segments, changes in State estimates in the division of funds between substitute highway and transit projects, amounts made available in prior fiscal years, and the availability and reapportionment of funds under subparagraph (E).
          (K) T4Reduction of interstate apportionment.–
            (i) T4In generalK.–Unobligated apportionments for the Interstate System in any State where a withdrawal is approved under this paragraph shall, on the date of such approval, be reduced in the proportion that the Federal share of the cost of the withdrawn route or portion thereof bears to the Federal share of the total cost of all interstate routes in that State as reflected in the latest cost estimate approved by the Congress.
            (ii) T4ExceptionK.–In any State where the withdrawal of an interstate route or portion thereof has been approved under this section prior to the date of the enactment of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1976, the unobligated apportionments for the Interstate System in that State on such date of enactment shall be reduced in the proportion that the Federal share of the cost to complete such route or portion thereof, as shown in the latest cost estimate approved by Congress prior to such approval of withdrawal, bears to the Federal share of the cost of all interstate routes in that State, as shown in such cost estimate; except that the amount of such proportional reduction shall be credited with the amount of any reduction in such State“s Interstate apportionment which was attributable to the Federal share of any substitute project approved under this paragraph before such date of enactment.
          (L) T4Applicability of fta.–\4\N
            (i) T4Supplementary fundsK.–Funds available for expenditure to carry out the purposes of this paragraph shall be supplementary to and not in substitution for funds authorized and available for obligation pursuant to chapter 53 of title 49.
            (ii) T4Labor protectionK.–The provisions of section 5323(a)(1)(D) of title 49 shall apply in carrying out this paragraph.
          (M) T4Limitation on interstate designationsK.–After the date of the enactment of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1978, the Secretary may not designate any mileage as part of the Interstate System pursuant to this paragraph or under any other provision of law. The preceding sentence shall not apply to a designation made under section 139 of this title.
          (N) T4Open to traffic requirementK.–After September 30, 1979, the Secretary shall not withdraw his approval under this paragraph of any route or portion thereof on the Interstate System open to traffic before the date of the proposed withdrawal. Any withdrawal of approval of any such route or portion thereof before September 30, 1979, is hereby determined to be authorized by this paragraph.
          (O) T4Limitation on substitution for statutorily designated routesK.–Any route or segment which was statutorily designated after March 7, 1978, to be on the Interstate System shall not be eligible for withdrawal or substitution under this subsection.
          (P) T4Right-of-way payback.–
            (i) T4EnforcementK.–Of sums apportioned or allocated under this paragraph to a State, the Secretary shall not obligate for projects in such State an amount equal to the amount of Federal funds expended to purchase the right-of-way for any withdrawn route or portion thereof if the right-of-way is not first disposed of (or applied to a project in accordance with paragraph (5)(B), (6)(B), or (7)) by the State.
            (ii) T4Limitation on applicabilityK.–Clause (i) shall not apply to sums apportioned or allocated under this paragraph to a State for a fiscal year if the projected total amount of funds to be apportioned and allocated under this paragraph to such State in succeeding fiscal years exceeds the amount of Federal funds expended to purchase the right-of-way.
            (iii) T4Release of fundsK.–The Secretary may obligate for projects in a State under this paragraph any funds withheld from obligation in such State if the State repays an equivalent amount in accordance with paragraph (5)(B), (6)(B), or (7), as the case may be, or if the Secretary determines that such repayment is not required under such paragraph.
    (5) T4Limitation on refunds for withdrawals before november 6, 1978K.–Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of any withdrawal of approval before November 6, 1978–
      (A) upon the withdrawal of approval of any route or portion thereof on the Interstate System under this section, a State, subject to the approval of the Secretary, shall not be required to refund to the Highway Trust Fund any sums paid to the State for intangible costs;
      (B) refund will not be required for the costs of construction items, materials, or rights-of-way of the withdrawn route or portion of the Interstate System which will be or have been applied (i) to a transportation project permissible under this title, (ii) to a public conservation or public recreation purpose, or (iii) to such other public purpose as may be determined by the Secretary to be in the public interest on condition that the State shall make assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such construction items or materials or rights-of-way have been or will be so applied by the State of any political subdivision thereof to a project under clause (i), (ii), or (iii) within 10 years from the date of the withdrawal of approval.
    (6) T4Limitation on refunds for withdrawals on and after november 6, 1978K.–Notwithstanding any other provision of law–
      (A) in the case of any withdrawal of approval on or after November 6, 1978, of a route or portion thereof on the Interstate System, a State, subject to the approval of the Secretary, shall not be required to refund to the Highway Trust Fund any sums paid to the State for intangible costs;
      (B) in the case of any withdrawal of approval on or after November 6, 1978, of any route or portion thereof on the Interstate System under this section, a State shall not be required to refund to the Highway Trust Fund the costs of construction items, materials, or rights-of-way of the withdrawn route or portion thereof if such items, materials, and rights-of-way were acquired before November 6, 1978, if by the date of withdrawal of approval the Secretary has not approved the environmental impact statement required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and if such construction items, materials, or rights-of-way will be or have been applied (i) to a transportation project permissible under this title, (ii) to a public conservation or public recreation purpose, or (iii) to any other public purpose determined by the Secretary to be in the public interest on condition that the State gives assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such construction items, materials, or rights-of-way have been or will be so applied by the State, or any political subdivision thereof, to a project under clause (i), (ii), or (iii) within ten years from the date of withdrawal of approval.
    (7) T4Additional limitation on refundsK.–In any case where a withdrawal of approval of a route or portion thereof on the Interstate System on or after November 6, 1978, does not come within the provisions of paragraph (6)(B) of this subsection, the State shall refund to the Highway Trust Fund the costs of construction items, materials, and rights-of-way of the withdrawn route or portion thereof, except that if the State gives assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such items, materials, and rights-of-way have been or will be applied to a transportation project permissible under this title within ten years from the date of withdrawal of approval, the amount of such repayment shall be the difference between the amount received for such items, materials, and rights-of-way and the amount which would be received in accordance with the current Federal share applicable to the transportation project to which such items, materials, and rights-of-way were or are to be applied.
    (8) T4Protection of property rightsK.–Nothing in this subsection shall in any way alter rights under State law of persons owning property within the right-of-way immediately prior to such property being obtained by the State. The Federal share of the cost of property sold or otherwise transferred to previous owners under State law shall be refunded and credited to the unobligated balance of the State“s apportionment for interstate highways.
    (9) T4Limitation on funding of modified mileage projectsK.–Interstate mileage authorized for any State and withdrawn and transferred under the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection after the date of enactment of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1976, must be constructed by the State receiving such mileage as part of its Interstate System. Any State receiving such transfer of mileage may not, with respect to that transfer, avail itself of the optional use of Interstate funds under the second sentence of paragraph (4) of this subsection.
  (f) The Secretary shall have authority to approve in whole or in part the Interstate System, as and when such systems or portions thereof are designated, or to require modifications or revisions thereof.
  (g) The Secretary, on July 1, 1974, shall remove from designation as a part of the Interstate System each segment of such system for which a State has not notified the Secretary that such State intends to construct such segment, and which the Secretary finds is not essential to completion of a unified and connected Interstate System. Any segment of the Interstate System, with respect to which a State has not submitted by July 1, 1975, a schedule for the expenditure of funds for completion of construction of such segment or alternative segment within the period of availability of funds authorized to be appropriated for completion of the Interstate System, and with respect to which the State has not provided the Secretary with assurances satisfactory to him that such schedule will be met, shall be removed from designation as a part of the Interstate System. No segment of the Interstate System removed under the authority of the preceding sentence shall thereafter be designated as a part of the Interstate System except as the Secretary finds necessary in the interest of national defense or for other reasons of national interest. This subsection shall not be applicable to any segment of the Interstate System referred to in section 23(a) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968.
  (h) Notwithstanding subsections (e)(2) and (g) of this section, in any case where a segment of the Interstate System was a designated part of such System on June 1, 1973, and is entirely within the boundaries of an incorporated city and such city enters into an agreement with the Secretary to pay all non-Federal costs of construction of such segment, such segment shall be constructed.
    (i) T4Eligible Projects for NHSK.–Subject to project approval by the Secretary, funds apportioned to a State under section 104(b)(1) for the National Highway System may be obligated for any of the following:
      (1) Construction, reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, and rehabilitation of segments of such system.
      (2) Operational improvements for segments of such system.
      (3) Construction of, and operational improvements for, a Federal-aid highway not on the National Highway System and construction of a transit project eligible for assistance under chapter 53 of title 49–
        (A) if such highway or transit project is in the same corridor as, and in proximity to, a fully access controlled highway designated to the National Highway System;
        (B) if the construction or improvements will improve the level of service on the fully access controlled highway and improve regional travel; and
        (C) if the construction or improvements are more cost effective than an improvement to the fully access controlled highway that has benefits comparable to the benefits which will be achieved by the construction of, or improvements to, the highway not on the National Highway System.
      (4) Highway safety improvements for segments of the National Highway System.
      (5) Transportation planning in accordance with sections 134 and 135.
      (6) Highway research and planning in accordance with section 307.
      (7) Highway-related technology transfer activities.
      (8) Startup costs for traffic management and control if such costs are limited to the time period necessary to achieve operable status but not to exceed 2 years following the date of project approval, if such funds are not used to replace existing funds.
      (9) Fringe and corridor parking facilities.
      (10) Carpool and vanpool projects.
      (11) Bicycle transportation and pedestrian walkways in accordance with section 217.
      (12) Development and establishment of management systems under section 303.
      (13) In accordance with all applicable Federal law and regulations, participation in wetlands mitigation efforts related to projects funded under this title, which may include participation in wetlands mitigation banks; contributions to statewide and regional efforts to conserve, restore, enhance and create wetlands; and development of statewide and regional wetlands conservation and mitigation plans, including any such banks, efforts, and plans authorized pursuant to the Water Resources Development Act of 1990 (including crediting provisions). Contributions to such mitigation efforts may take place concurrent with or in advance of project construction. Contributions toward these efforts may occur in advance of project construction only if such efforts are consistent with all applicable requirements of Federal law and regulations and State transportation planning processes.
