  (a) As soon as practicable after the apportionments for the Federal-aid systems have been made for any fiscal year, the State highway department of any State desiring to avail itself of the benefits of this chapter shall submit to the Secretary for his approval a program or programs of proposed projects for the utilization of the funds apportioned. The Secretary shall act upon programs submitted to him as soon as practicable after the same have been submitted. The Secretary may approve a program in whole or in part, but he shall not approve any project in a proposed program which is not located upon an approved Federal-aid system.
  (b) In approving programs for projects on the Federal-aid secondary system, the Secretary shall require that such projects be selected by the State highway department and the appropriate local officials in cooperation with each other, except in States where all public roads and highways are under the control and supervision of the State highway department such selection shall be made after consultation with appropriate local officials.
  (c) In approving programs for projects on the Federal-aid primary system, the Secretary shall give preference to such projects as will expedite the completion of an adequate and connected system of highways interstate in character.
  (d) In approving programs for projects on the Federal-aid urban system, the Secretary shall require that such projects be selected by the appropriate local officials with the concurrence of the State highway department of each State and, in urbanized areas, also in accordance with the planning process required pursuant to section 134 of this title.
  (e) In approving programs for projects under this chapter, the Secretary may give priority of approval to, and expedite the construction of, projects that are recommended as important to the national defense by the Secretary of Defense, or other official authorized by the President to make such recommendation.
  (f) In approving programs for projects on the Federal-aid systems pursuant to chapter 1 of this title, the Secretary shall give priority to those projects which incorporate improved standards and features with safety benefits.
  (g) In preparing programs to submit in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the State highway departments shall give consideration to projects providing direct and convenient public access to public airports, public ports for water transportation, new town communities, and new town-intown communities, and in approving such programs the Secretary shall give consideration to such projects.
  (h) In preparing programs to submit in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the State highway departments may give priority to projects for the reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, or rehabilitation of highways which are incurring a substantial use as a result of transportation activities to meet national energy requirements and which will continue to incur such use, and in approving such programs the Secretary may give priority to such projects.
  (k) \1\N T4Priority for High Priority Segments of Corridors of National SignificanceK.–In selecting projects for inclusion in a program of projects under this section, the State may give priority to high priority segments of corridors identified under section 1105(f) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. In approving programs of projects under this section, the Secretary may give priority of approval to, and expedite construction of, projects to complete construction of such segments.
