  (a) T4In GeneralK.–All agreements between the Secretary and the State transportation department for the construction of projects on the Interstate System shall contain a clause providing that the State will not add any points of access to, or exit from, the project in addition to those approved by the Secretary in the plans for such project, without the prior approval of the Secretary. Such agreements shall also contain a clause providing that the State will not permit automotive service stations or other commercial establishments for serving motor vehicle users to be constructed or located on the rights-of-way of the Interstate System. Such agreements may, however, authorize a State or political subdivision thereof to use or permit the use of the airspace above and below the established grade line of the highway pavement for such purposes as will not impair the full use and safety of the highway, as will not require or permit vehicular access to such space directly from such established grade line of the highway, or otherwise interfere in any way with the free flow of traffic on the Interstate System. Nothing in this section, or in any agreement entered into under this section, shall require the discontinuance, obstruction, or removal of any establishment for serving motor vehicle users on any highway which has been, or is hereafter, designated as a highway or route on the Interstate System (1) if such establishment (A) was in existence before January 1, 1960, (B) is owned by a State, and (C) is operated through concessionaries or otherwise, and (2) if all access to, and exits from, such establishment conform to the standards established for such a highway under this title.
  (b) T4Vending MachinesK.–Notwithstanding subsection (a), any State may permit the placement of vending machines in rest and recreation areas, and in safety rest areas, constructed or located on rights-of-way of the Interstate System in such State. Such vending machines may only dispense such food, drink, and other articles as the State transportation department determines are appropriate and desirable. Such vending machines may only be operated by the State. In permitting the placement of vending machines, the State shall give priority to vending machines which are operated through the State licensing agency designated pursuant to section 2(a)(5) of the Act of June 20, 1936, commonly known as the ””Randolph-Sheppard Act““ (20 U.S.C. 107a(a)(5)). The costs of installation, operation, and maintenance of vending machines shall not be eligible for Federal assistance under this title.
  (c) T4Motorist Call Boxes.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Notwithstanding subsection (a), a State may permit the placement of motorist call boxes on rights-of-way of the National Highway System. Such motorist call boxes may include the identification and sponsorship logos of such call boxes.
    (2) T4Sponsorship logos.–
      (A) T4Approval by state and local agenciesK.–All call box installations displaying sponsorship logos under this subsection shall be approved by the highway agencies having jurisdiction of the highway on which they are located.
      (B) T4Size on boxK.–A sponsorship logo may be placed on the call box in a dimension not to exceed the size of the call box or a total dimension in excess of 12 inches by 18 inches.
      (C) T4Size on identification signK.–Sponsorship logos in a dimension not to exceed 12 inches by 30 inches may be displayed on a call box identification sign affixed to the call box post.
      (D) T4Spacing of signsK.–Sponsorship logos affixed to an identification sign on a call box post may be located on the rights-of-way at intervals not more frequently than 1 per every 5 miles.
      (E) T4Distribution throughout stateK.–Within a State, at least 20 percent of the call boxes displaying sponsorship logos shall be located on highways outside of urbanized areas with a population greater than 50,000.
    (3) T4Nonsafety hazardsK.–The call boxes and their location, posts, foundations, and mountings shall be consistent with requirements of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices or any requirements deemed necessary by the Secretary to assure that the call boxes shall not be a safety hazard to motorists.
