  (a) In all cases where the construction is to be performed by the State transportation department or under its supervision, a request for submission of bids shall be made by advertisement unless some other method is approved by the Secretary. The Secretary shall require such plans and specifications and such methods of bidding as shall be effective in securing competition.
  (b) T4Bidding Requirements.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Subject to paragraph (2), construction of each project, subject to the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, shall be performed by contract awarded by competitive bidding, unless the State transportation department demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that some other method is more cost effective or that an emergency exists. Contracts for the construction of each project shall be awarded only on the basis of the lowest responsive bid submitted by a bidder meeting established criteria of responsibility. No requirement or obligation shall be imposed as a condition precedent to the award of a contract to such bidder for a project, or to the Secretary“s concurrence in the award of a contract to such bidder, unless such requirement or obligation is otherwise lawful and is specifically set forth in the advertised specifications.
    (2) T4Contracting for engineering and design services.–
      (A) T4General ruleK.–Each contract for program management, construction management, feasibility studies, preliminary engineering, design, engineering, surveying, mapping, or architectural related services with respect to a project subject to the provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall be awarded in the same manner as a contract for architectural and engineering services is negotiated under title IX of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 or equivalent State qualifications-based requirements.
      (B) T4Applicability.–
        (i) T4In a complying stateK.–If, on the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the services described in subparagraph (A) may be awarded in a State in the manner described in subparagraph (A), subparagraph (A) shall apply in such State beginning on such date of enactment.
        (ii) T4In a noncomplying stateK.–In the case of any other State, subparagraph (A) shall apply in such State beginning on the earlier of (I) August 1, 1989, or (II) the 10th day following the close of the 1st regular session of the legislature of a State which begins after the date of the enactment of this paragraph.
      (C) T4Performance and auditsK.–Any contract or subcontract awarded in accordance with subparagraph (A), whether funded in whole or in part with Federal-aid highway funds, shall be performed and audited in compliance with cost principles contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulations of part 31 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
      (D) T4Indirect cost ratesK.–Instead of performing its own audits, a recipient of funds under a contract or subcontract awarded in accordance with subparagraph (A) shall accept indirect cost rates established in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations for 1-year applicable accounting periods by a cognizant Federal or State government agency, if such rates are not currently under dispute.
      (E) T4Application of ratesK.–Once a firm“s indirect cost rates are accepted under this paragraph, the recipient of the funds shall apply such rates for the purposes of contract estimation, negotiation, administration, reporting, and contract payment and shall not be limited by administrative or de facto ceilings of any kind.
      (F) T4Prenotification; confidentiality of dataK.–A recipient of funds requesting or using the cost and rate data described in subparagraph (E) shall notify any affected firm before such request or use. Such data shall be confidential and shall not be accessible or provided, in whole or in part, to another firm or to any government agency which is not part of the group of agencies sharing cost data under this paragraph, except by written permission of the audited firm. If prohibited by law, such cost and rate data shall not be disclosed under any circumstances.
      (G) T4State optionK.–Subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), and (F) shall take effect 1 year after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph; except that if a State, during such 1-year period, adopts by statute an alternative process intended to promote engineering and design quality and ensure maximum competition by professional companies of all sizes providing engineering and design services, such subparagraphs shall not apply with respect to the State. If the Secretary determines that the legislature of the State did not convene and adjourn a full regular session during such 1-year period, the Secretary may extend such 1-year period until the adjournment of the next regular session of the legislature.
  (c) The Secretary shall require as a condition precedent to his approval of each contract awarded by competitive bidding pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, and subject to the provisions of this section, a sworn statement, executed by, or on behalf of, the person, firm, association, or corporation to whom such contract is to be awarded, certifying that such person, firm, association, or corporation has not, either directly or indirectly, entered into any agreement, participated in any collusion, or otherwise taken any action in restraint of free competitive bidding in connection with such contract.
  (d) No contract awarded by competitive bidding pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, and subject to the provisions of this section, shall be entered into by any State transportation department or local subdivision of the State without compliance with the provisions of this section, and without the prior concurrence of the Secretary in the award thereof.
  (e) T4Standardized Contract Clause Concerning Site Conditions.–
    (1) T4General ruleK.–The Secretary shall issue regulations establishing and requiring, for inclusion in each contract entered into with respect to any project approved under section 106 of this title a contract clause, developed in accordance with guidelines established by the Secretary, which equitably addresses each of the following:
      (A) Site conditions.
      (B) Suspensions of work ordered by the State (other than a suspension of work caused by the fault of the contractor or by weather).
      (C) Material changes in the scope of work specified in the contract.
     The guidelines established by the Secretary shall not require arbitration.
    (2) T4Limitation on applicabilityK.–Paragraph (1) shall apply in a State except to the extent that such State adopts or has adopted by statute a formal procedure for the development of a contract clause described in paragraph (1) or adopts or has adopted a statute which does not permit inclusion of such a contract clause.
  (f) The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to contracts for projects on the Federal-aid secondary system in those States where the Secretary has discharged his responsibility pursuant to section 117 \1\N of this title, except where employees of a political subdivision of a State are working on a project outside of such political subdivision.
  (g) T4Selection ProcessK.–A State may procure, under a single contract, the services of a consultant to prepare any environmental impact assessments or analyses required for a project, including environmental impact statements, as well as subsequent engineering and design work on the project if the State conducts a review that assesses the objectivity of the environmental assessment, environmental analysis, or environmental impact statement prior to its submission to the Secretary.
