  (a) The Secretary may discharge any of his responsibilities under this title relative to projects under this chapter, except projects on the Interstate System, upon the request of any State, by accepting a certification by the State highway department, or that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway or other transportation construction, of its performance of such responsibilities, if he finds such projects will be carried out in accordance with State laws, regulations, directives, and standards which will accomplish the policies and objectives contained in or issued pursuant to this title.
  (b) The Secretary may accept projects based on inspections of a type and frequency necessary to ensure the projects are completed in accordance with appropriate standards.
  (c) The procedure authorized by this section shall be an alternative to that otherwise prescribed in this title. The Secretary shall promulgate such guidelines and regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
  (d) Acceptance by the Secretary of a State“s certification under this section may be rescinded by the Secretary at any time if, in his opinion, it is necessary to do.
  (e) Nothing in this section, section 106(b), section 133, and section 149 shall affect or discharge any responsibility or obligation of the Secretary under any Federal law, including the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321, et seq.), section 303 of title 49, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000(d),\1\N et seq.), title VIII of the Act of April 11, 1968 (Public Law 90–284, 42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.), and the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Land Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601, et seq.), other than this title.
  (f)    (1) In the case of the Federal-aid secondary system, in lieu of discharging his responsibilities in accordance with subsections (a) through (d) of this section, the Secretary may, upon the request of any State highway department, discharge his responsibility relative to the plans, specifications, estimates, surveys, contract awards, design, inspection, and construction of all projects on the Federal-aid secondary system by his receiving and approving a certified statement by the State highway department setting forth that the plans, design, and construction for each such project are in accord with those standards and procedures which (A) were adopted by such State highway department, (B) were applicable to projects in this category, and (C) were approved by him.
    (2) The Secretary shall not approve such standards and procedures unless they are in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of section 105, subsection (b) of section 106, and subsection (c) of section 109, of this title.
    (3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection shall not be construed to relieve the Secretary of his obligation to make a final inspection of each project after construction and to require an adequate showing of the estimated cost of construction and the actual cost of construction.
