  (a) T4Date Available for ObligationK.–Except as otherwise specifically provided, authorizations from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out this title shall be available for obligation on the date of their apportionment or allocation or on October 1 of the fiscal year for which they are authorized, whichever occurs first.
  (b) T4Period of Availability; Discretionary Projects.–
    (1) T4Interstate construction fundsK.–Funds apportioned or allocated for Interstate construction in a State (other than Massachusetts) shall remain available for obligation in that State until the last day of the fiscal year in which they are apportioned or allocated. Sums not obligated by the last day of the fiscal year in which they are apportioned or allocated shall be allocated to other States, except Massachusetts, at the discretion of the Secretary. All sums apportioned or allocated on or after October 1, 1994, shall remain available in the State until expended. All sums apportioned or allocated to Massachusetts on or after October 1, 1989, shall remain available until expended.
    (2) T4Other fundsK.–Except as otherwise specifically provided, funds apportioned or allocated pursuant to this title (other than for Interstate construction) in a State shall remain available for obligation in that State for a period of 3 years after the last day of the fiscal year for which the funds are authorized. Any amounts so apportioned or allocated that remain unobligated at the end of that period shall lapse.
  (c) T4Set Asides for Interstate Discretionary Projects.–
    (1) T4Set aside for construction projectsK.–Before any apportionment is made under section 104(b)(5)(A) of this title for a fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1992, the Secretary shall set aside $100,000,000. Subject to section 149(d) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1987, such amount shall be available only for obligation by the Secretary in accordance with subsection (b)(2) of this section.
    (2) T4Set aside for 4r projects.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Before any apportionment is made under section 104(b)(1) of this title, the Secretary shall set aside $54,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, $64,000,000 for each \1\N fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996, and $65,000,000 for fiscal year 1997 for obligation by the Secretary for projects for resurfacing, restoring, rehabilitating, and reconstructing any route or portion thereof on the Interstate System (other than any highway designated as a part of the Interstate System under section 139 and any toll road on the Interstate System not subject to an agreement under section 119(e) of this title, as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991). Of the amounts set aside under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall obligate $16,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $17,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1993 and 1994 for improvements on the Kennedy Expressway in Chicago, Illinois. The remainder of such funds shall be made available by the Secretary to any State applying for such funds, if the Secretary determines that–
        (i) the State has obligated or demonstrates that it will obligate in the fiscal year all of its apportionments under section 104(b)(1) other than an amount which, by itself, is insufficient to pay the Federal share of the cost of a project for resurfacing, restoring, rehabilitating, and reconstructing the Interstate System which has been submitted by the State to the Secretary for approval; and
        (ii) the applicant is willing and able to (I) obligate the funds within 1 year of the date the funds are made available, (II) apply them to a ready-to-commence project, and (III) in the case of construction work, begin work within 90 days of obligation.
      (B) T4Priority consideration for certain projectsK.–In selecting projects to fund under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall give priority consideration to any project the cost of which exceeds $10,000,000 on any high volume route in an urban area or a high truck-volume route in a rural area.
      (C) T4Period of availability of discretionary fundsK.–Sums made available pursuant to this paragraph shall remain available until expended.
  (d) In addition to amounts otherwise available to carry out this section, an amount equal to the amount by which the unobligated apportionment for the Interstate System in any State is reduced under section 103(e)(4) of this title on account of the withdrawal of a route or portion thereof on the Interstate System, which withdrawal is approved after the date of enactment of this subsection, shall be available to the Secretary for obligation in accordance with subsection (b)(1) of this section.
  (e) The total payments to any State shall not at any time during a current fiscal year exceed the total of all apportionments to such State in accordance with section 104 of this title for such fiscal year and all preceding fiscal years.
  (f) Funds made available to the State of Alaska and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under this title may be expended for construction of access and development roads that will serve resource development, recreational, residential, commercial, industrial, or other like purposes.
