  (a) T4Basic Program.–
    (1) T4Authorization for federal participationK.–Notwithstanding section 301 of this title and subject to the provisions of this section, the Secretary shall permit Federal participation in–
      (A) initial construction of a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel (other than a highway, bridge, or tunnel on the Interstate System) or approach thereto;
      (B) reconstructing, resurfacing, restoring, and rehabilitating a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel (including a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel subject to an agreement entered into under this section or section 119(e) as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991) or approach thereto;
      (C) reconstruction or replacement of a toll-free bridge or tunnel and conversion of the bridge or tunnel to a toll facility;
      (D) reconstruction of a toll-free Federal-aid highway (other than a highway on the Interstate System) and conversion of the highway to a toll facility; and
      (E) preliminary studies to determine the feasibility of a toll facility for which Federal participation is authorized under subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D);
     on the same basis and in the same manner as in the construction of free highways under this chapter.
    (2) T4OwnershipK.–Each highway, bridge, tunnel, or approach thereto constructed under this subsection must–
      (A) be publicly owned, or
      (B) be privately owned if the public authority having jurisdiction over the highway, bridge, tunnel, or approach has entered into a contract with a private person or persons to design, finance, construct, and operate the facility and the public authority will be responsible for complying with all applicable requirements of this title with respect to the facility.
    (3) T4Limitations on use of revenuesK.–Before the Secretary may permit Federal participation under this subsection in construction of a highway, bridge, or tunnel located in a State, the public authority (including the State transportation department) having jurisdiction over the highway, bridge, or tunnel must enter into an agreement with the Secretary which provides that all toll revenues received from operation of the toll facility will be used first for debt service, for reasonable return on investment of any private person financing the project, and for the costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of the toll facility, including reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, and rehabilitation. If the State certifies annually that the tolled facility is being adequately maintained, the State may use any toll revenues in excess of amounts required under the preceding sentence for any purpose for which Federal funds may be obligated by a State under this title.
    (4) T4Special rule for fundingK.–In the case of a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel under the jurisdiction of a public authority of a State (other than the State transportation department), upon request of the State transportation department and subject to such terms and conditions as such department and public authority may agree, the Secretary shall reimburse such public authority for the Federal share of the costs of construction of the project carried out on the toll facility under this subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as such department would be reimbursed if such project was being carried out by such department. The reimbursement of funds under this paragraph shall be from sums apportioned to the State under this chapter and available for obligations on projects on the Federal-aid system in such State on which the project is being carried out.
    (5) T4Limitation on federal shareK.–Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the Federal share payable for construction of a highway, bridge, tunnel, or approach thereto or conversion of a highway, bridge, or tunnel to a toll facility under this subsection shall be such percentage as the State determines but not to exceed 50 percent. The Federal share payable for construction of a new bridge, tunnel, or approach thereto or for reconstruction or replacement of a bridge, tunnel, or approach thereto shall be such percentage as the Secretary determines but not to exceed 80 percent. In the case of a toll facility subject to an agreement under section 119 or 129, the Federal share payable on any project for resurfacing, restoring, rehabilitating, or reconstructing such facility shall be 80 percent until the scheduled expiration of such agreement (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991).
    (6) T4ModificationsK.–If a public authority (including a State transportation department) having jurisdiction over a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel subject to an agreement under this section or section 119(e), as in effect on the day before the effective date of title I of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, requests modification of such agreement, the Secretary shall modify such agreement to allow the continuation of tolls in accordance with paragraph (3) without repayment of Federal funds.
    (7) T4LoansK.–A State may loan all or part of the Federal share of a toll project under this section to a public or private agency constructing a toll facility. Such loan may be made only after all Federal environmental requirements have been complied with and permits obtained. The amount loaned shall be subordinated to other debt financing for the facility except for loans made by the State or any other public agency to the agency constructing the facility. Funds loaned pursuant to this section may be obligated for projects eligible under this section. The repayment of any such loan shall commence not more than 5 years after the facility has opened to traffic. Any such loan shall bear interest at the average rate the State“s pooled investment fund earned in the 52 weeks preceding the start of repayment. The term of any such loan shall not exceed 30 years from the time the loan was obligated. Amounts repaid to a State from any loan made under this section may be obligated for any purpose for which the loaned funds were available. The Secretary shall establish procedures and guidelines for making such loans.
    (8) T4Initial construction definedK.–For purposes of this subsection, the term ””initial construction““ means the construction of a highway, bridge, or tunnel at any time before it is open to traffic and does not include any improvement to a highway, bridge, or tunnel after it is open to traffic.
  (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 301 of this title, the Secretary may permit Federal participation under this title in the construction of a project constituting an approach to a ferry, whether toll or free, the route of which has been classified as a public road and has not been designated as a route on the Interstate System. Such ferry may be either publicly or privately owned and operated, but the operating authority and the amount of fares charged for passage shall be under the control of a State agency or official, and all revenues derived from publicly owned or operated ferries shall be applied to payment of the cost of construction or acquisition thereof, including debt service, and to actual and necessary costs of operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement.
  (c) Notwithstanding section 301 of this title, the Secretary may permit Federal participation under this title in the construction of ferry boats and ferry terminal facilities, whether toll or free, subject to the following conditions:
    (1) It is not feasible to build a bridge, tunnel, combination thereof, or other normal highway structure in lieu of the use of such ferry.
    (2) The operation of the ferry shall be on a route classified as a public road within the State and which has not been designated as a route on the Interstate System. Projects under this subsection may be eligible for both ferry boats carrying cars and passengers and ferry boats carrying passengers only.
    (3) Such ferry boat or ferry terminal facility shall be publicly owned.
    (4) The operating authority and the amount of fares charged for passage on such ferry shall be under the control of the State or other public entity, and all revenues derived therefrom shall be applied to actual and necessary costs of operation, maintenance, and \1\N repair, debt service, negotiated management fees, and, in the case of a privately operated toll ferry, for a reasonable rate of return.
    (5) Such ferry may be operated only within the State (including the islands which comprise the State of Hawaii and the islands which comprise the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico) or between adjoining States. Except with respect to operations between the islands which comprise the State of Hawaii and operations between the islands which comprise the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and operations between any two points in Alaska and between Alaska and Washington, including stops at appropriate points in the Dominion of Canada, no part of such ferry operation shall be in any foreign or international waters.
    (6) No such ferry shall be sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of without the approval of the Secretary. The Federal share of any proceeds from such a disposition shall be credited to the unprogramed balance of Federal-aid highway funds of the same class last apportioned to such State. Any amount so credited shall be in addition to all other funds then apportioned to such State and available for expenditure in accordance with the provisions of this title.
  (d) T4Pilot Program.–
    (1) T4Authorization for federal participationK.–Subject to the provisions of this subsection, the Secretary shall establish a pilot program which permits Federal participation in 9 toll facilities on the same basis and in the same manner as in the construction of free highways under this chapter.
    (2) T4Limitation on types of facilitiesK.–The Secretary may only permit Federal participation under this subsection in the following type of facilities:
      (A) The construction of a new toll highway, bridge, or tunnel (other than a highway on the Interstate System).
      (B) The reconstruction of an existing highway, bridge, or tunnel to expand its capacity (other than a highway, bridge, or tunnel on the Interstate System).
    (3) T4Limitation on number of facilitiesK.–The Secretary may only permit Federal participation under this subsection in 9 facilities. One of such facilities shall be carried out in each of the following: Orange County, California, the State of Texas, the States of Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the State of Florida, States \2\N of Georgia and West Virginia, and the State of South Carolina. The locations of the other 2 facilities shall be at the discretion of the Secretary; except that not more than 2 facilities carried out under this subsection may be located in a State. The Governor of the States of Pennsylvania and West Virginia shall select the facility to be carried out in such State. The toll facility in Orange County, California, may be located in more than 1 highway corridor to relieve congestion on existing interstate routes in such County.
    (4) T4Limitation on federal shareK.–Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal share payable for the construction or reconstruction of a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel under this subsection shall not exceed 35 percent.
    (5) T4Public ownership requirementK.–Each highway, bridge, tunnel, or approach thereto under this subsection must be publicly owned and operated; except that, under this subsection, Federal funds may participate in the approaches to a toll highway, toll bridge, or toll tunnel whether the highway, bridge, or tunnel is to be or has been constructed by a State or other public authority.
    (6) T4Limitations on use of revenuesK.–Before the Secretary may permit Federal participation under this subsection in a State, the State highway department (and, in the case of the State of Texas, the Texas Turnpike Authority) must enter into an agreement with the Secretary which provides that all toll revenues received from operation of the tolled facility constructed or reconstructed under this subsection will be used only on the tolled facility, and only for construction or reconstruction costs, or for the costs necessary for the proper operation, maintenance, and debt service of the tolled facility, including resurfacing, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and restoration.
    (7) T4Limitation on federal participation to original constructionK.–Except for reconstruction to expand capacity, toll facilities may receive Federal participation under this chapter only once for the original construction or reconstruction of the facility.
    (8) T4Effect on apportionmentK.–Toll mileage constructed or reconstructed under this subsection shall not be used to increase a State“s apportionment under any apportionment formula.
    (9) T4New toll highway definedK.–For purposes of this subsection, the term ””new toll highway, bridge, or tunnel““ shall mean initial construction of a highway, bridge, or tunnel on a new location at any time before it is open to traffic and shall not include any improvements to a toll highway, bridge, or tunnel after it is open to traffic.
    (10) T4Special rule for funding of texas projectK.–Upon request of the Texas Department of Highways and Public Transportation and subject to such terms and conditions as such Department and the Texas Turnpike Authority may agree, the Secretary shall reimburse the Texas Turnpike Authority for the Federal share of the costs of construction of the project carried out in the State of Texas under this subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as such Department would be reimbursed if such project was being carried out by such Department. The reimbursement of funds under this paragraph shall be from sums apportioned to the State of Texas under this chapter and available for obligation on projects on the Federal-aid primary system in such State.
