  (a) The Secretary of Transportation shall not approve any project under section 106 in any State which has (1) a maximum speed limit on any public highway within its jurisdiction in excess of fifty-five miles per hour other than a highway on the Interstate System located outside of an urbanized area of 50,000 population or more, (2) a maximum speed limit on any highway within its jurisdiction on the Interstate System located outside of an urbanized area of 50,000 population or more in excess of 65 miles per hour, (3) a maximum speed limit in excess of 65 miles per hour on any highway within its jurisdiction located outside an urbanized area of 50,000 population or more (A) which is constructed to interstate standards in accordance with section 109(b) of this title and connected to a highway on the Interstate System, (B) which is a divided 4-lane fully controlled access highway designed or constructed to connect to a highway on the Interstate System posted at 65 miles per hour and constructed to design and construction standards as determined by the Secretary which provide a facility adequate for a speed limit of 65 miles per hour, or (C) which is constructed to the geometric and construction standards adequate for current and probable future traffic demands and for the needs of the locality and is designated by the Secretary as part of the Interstate System in accordance with section 139(c) of this title, or (4) a speed limit on any other portion of a public highway within its jurisdiction which is not uniformly applicable to all types of motor vehicles using such portion of highway, if on November 1, 1973, such portion of highway had a speed limit which was uniformly applicable to all types of motor vehicles using it. A lower speed limit may be established for any vehicle operating under a special permit because of any weight or dimension of such vehicle, including any load thereon. Clause (4) of this subsection shall not apply to any portion of a highway during such time that the condition of the highway, weather, an accident, or other condition creates a temporary hazard to the safety of traffic on such portion of a highway.
  (b) As used in this section the term ””motor vehicle““ means any vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power manufactured primarily for use on public highways, except any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails.
  (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 120 sums apportioned to any State under section 104 shall be available to pay the entire cost of any modification of the signing of the Federal-aid highways for which such sums are apportioned within such State due to a reduction in speed limits to conserve fuel if such change in signing occurs or has occurred after November 1, 1973.
  (d) The requirements of this section shall be deemed complied with by administrative action lawfully taken by the Governor or other appropriate State official that complies with this section.
  (e) Each State shall submit to the Secretary such data as the Secretary determines by rule is necessary to support its certification under section 141 of this title for the twelve-month period ending on September 30 before the date the certification is required, including data on the percentage of motor vehicles exceeding the speed limit on maximum speed limit highways in accordance with criteria to be established by the Secretary, including criteria which takes into account the variability of speedometer readings and criteria based upon the speeds of all vehicles or a representative sample of all vehicles. Such data shall include, but not be limited to, data on citations, travel speeds, and the posted speed limit and the design characteristics of roads from which such travel speed data are gathered. The Secretary shall issue regulations which ensure (1) that the monitoring programs conducted by the States to collect data for purposes of this subsection are uniform, (2) that devices and equipment under such programs are placed at locations on maximum speed limit highways on a scientifically random basis which takes into account the relative risk, as determined by the Secretary, of motor vehicle accidents occurring considering the classes of such highways and the speeds at which vehicles are traveling on such classes of highways, and (3) that the data submitted under this subsection will be in such form as the Secretary determines is necessary to carry out this section.
     [(f) to (h) Repealed. Pub. L. 102–240, title I, § 1029(g), Dec. 18, 1991, 105 Stat. 1970.]
    (i) T4Annual ReportK.–The Secretary shall transmit to Congress an annual report on travel speeds of motor vehicles on roads subject to subsection (a), State enforcement efforts with respect to speeding violations on such roads, and speed-related highway safety statistics.
