  (a) T4Designation of Roads.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary shall carry out a national scenic byways program that recognizes roads having outstanding scenic, historic, cultural, natural, recreational, and archaeological qualities by designating the roads as National Scenic Byways or All-American Roads.
    (2) T4CriteriaK.–The Secretary shall designate roads to be recognized under the national scenic byways program in accordance with criteria developed by the Secretary.
    (3) T4NominationK.–To be considered for the designation, a road must be nominated by a State or a Federal land management agency and must first be designated as a State scenic byway or, in the case of a road on Federal land, as a Federal land management agency byway.
  (b) T4Grants and Technical Assistance.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary shall make grants and provide technical assistance to States to–
      (A) implement projects on highways designated as National Scenic Byways or All-American Roads, or as State scenic byways; and
      (B) plan, design, and develop a State scenic byway program.
    (2) T4PrioritiesK.–In making grants, the Secretary shall give priority to–
      (A) each eligible project that is associated with a highway that has been designated as a National Scenic Byway or All-American Road and that is consistent with the corridor management plan for the byway;
      (B) each eligible project along a State-designated scenic byway that is consistent with the corridor management plan for the byway, or is intended to foster the development of such a plan, and is carried out to make the byway eligible for designation as a National Scenic Byway or All-American Road; and
      (C) each eligible project that is associated with the development of a State scenic byway program.
  (c) T4Eligible ProjectsK.–The following are projects that are eligible for Federal assistance under this section:
    (1) An activity related to the planning, design, or development of a State scenic byway program.
    (2) Development and implementation of a corridor management plan to maintain the scenic, historical, recreational, cultural, natural, and archaeological characteristics of a byway corridor while providing for accommodation of increased tourism and development of related amenities.
    (3) Safety improvements to a State scenic byway, National Scenic Byway, or All-American Road to the extent that the improvements are necessary to accommodate increased traffic and changes in the types of vehicles using the highway as a result of the designation as a State scenic byway, National Scenic Byway, or All-American Road.
    (4) Construction along a scenic byway of a facility for pedestrians and bicyclists, rest area, turnout, highway shoulder improvement, passing lane, overlook, or interpretive facility.
    (5) An improvement to a scenic byway that will enhance access to an area for the purpose of recreation, including water-related recreation.
    (6) Protection of scenic, historical, recreational, cultural, natural, and archaeological resources in an area adjacent to a scenic byway.
    (7) Development and provision of tourist information to the public, including interpretive information about a scenic byway.
    (8) Development and implementation of a scenic byway marketing program.
  (d) T4LimitationK.–The Secretary shall not make a grant under this section for any project that would not protect the scenic, historical, recreational, cultural, natural, and archaeological integrity of a highway and adjacent areas.
  (e) T4Savings ClauseK.–The Secretary shall not withhold any grant or impose any requirement on a State as a condition of providing a grant or technical assistance for any scenic byway unless the requirement is consistent with the authority provided in this chapter.
  (f) T4Federal ShareK.–The Federal share of the cost of carrying out a project under this section shall be 80 percent, except that, in the case of any scenic byway project along a public road that provides access to or within Federal or Indian land, a Federal land management agency may use funds authorized for use by the agency as the non-Federal share.
