   In this subchapter, the following definitions apply:
  (1) T4Eligible project costsK.–The term ””eligible project costs““ means amounts substantially all of which are paid by, or for the account of, an obligor in connection with a project, including the cost of–
    (A) development phase activities, including planning, feasibility analysis, revenue forecasting, environmental review, permitting, preliminary engineering and design work, and other preconstruction activities;
    (B) construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, replacement, and acquisition of real property (including land related to the project and improvements to land), environmental mitigation, construction contingencies, and acquisition of equipment; and
    (C) capitalized interest necessary to meet market requirements, reasonably required reserve funds, capital issuance expenses, and other carrying costs during construction.
  (2) T4Federal credit instrumentK.–The term ””Federal credit instrument““ means a secured loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit authorized to be made available under this subchapter with respect to a project.
  (3) T4Investment-grade ratingK.–The term ””investment-grade rating““ means a rating category of BBB minus, Baa3, or higher assigned by a rating agency to project obligations offered into the capital markets.
  (4) T4LenderK.–The term ””lender““ means any non-Federal qualified institutional buyer (as defined in section 230.144A(a) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), known as Rule 144A(a) of the Securities and Exchange Commission and issued under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.)), including–
    (A) a qualified retirement plan (as defined in section 4974(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that is a qualified institutional buyer; and
    (B) a governmental plan (as defined in section 414(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that is a qualified institutional buyer.
  (5) T4Line of creditK.–The term ””line of credit““ means an agreement entered into by the Secretary with an obligor under section 184 to provide a direct loan at a future date upon the occurrence of certain events.
  (6) T4Loan guaranteeK.–The term ””loan guarantee““ means any guarantee or other pledge by the Secretary to pay all or part of the principal of and interest on a loan or other debt obligation issued by an obligor and funded by a lender.
  (7) T4Local servicerK.–The term ””local servicer““ means–
    (A) a State infrastructure bank established under this title; or
    (B) a State or local government or any agency of a State or local government that is responsible for servicing a Federal credit instrument on behalf of the Secretary.
  (8) T4ObligorK.–The term ””obligor““ means a party primarily liable for payment of the principal of or interest on a Federal credit instrument, which party may be a corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality.
  (9) T4ProjectK.–The term ””project““ means–
    (A) any surface transportation project eligible for Federal assistance under this title or chapter 53 of title 49;
    (B) a project for an international bridge or tunnel for which an international entity authorized under Federal or State law is responsible.\1\N
    (C) a project for intercity passenger bus or rail facilities and vehicles, including facilities and vehicles owned by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation and components of magnetic levitation transportation systems; and
    (D) a project for publicly owned intermodal surface freight transfer facilities, other than seaports and airports, if the facilities are located on or adjacent to National Highway System routes or connections to the National Highway System.
  (10) T4Project obligationK.–The term ””project obligation““ means any note, bond, debenture, or other debt obligation issued by an obligor in connection with the financing of a project, other than a Federal credit instrument.
  (11) T4Rating agencyK.–The term ””rating agency““ means a bond rating agency identified by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization.
  (12) T4Secured loanK.–The term ””secured loan““ means a direct loan or other debt obligation issued by an obligor and funded by the Secretary in connection with the financing of a project under section 183.
  (13) T4StateK.–The term ””State““ has the meaning given the term in section 101.
  (14) T4Subsidy amountK.–The term ””subsidy amount““ means the amount of budget authority sufficient to cover the estimated long-term cost to the Federal Government of a Federal credit instrument, calculated on a net present value basis, excluding administrative costs and any incidental effects on governmental receipts or outlays in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
  (15) T4Substantial completionK.–The term ””substantial completion““ means the opening of a project to vehicular or passenger traffic.
