  (a) T4RegulationsK.–Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue regulations for State development, establishment, and implementation of a system for managing each of the following:
    (1) Highway pavement of Federal-aid highways.
    (2) Bridges on and off Federal-aid highways.
    (3) Highway safety.
    (4) Traffic congestion.
    (5) Public transportation facilities and equipment.
    (6) Intermodal transportation facilities and systems.
       In metropolitan areas, such systems shall be developed and implemented in cooperation with metropolitan planning organizations. Such regulations may include a compliance schedule for development, establishment, and implementation of each such system and minimum standards for each such system.
  (b) T4Traffic MonitoringK.–Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue guidelines and requirements for the State development, establishment, and implementation of a traffic monitoring system for highways and public transportation facilities and equipment.
  (c) T4State ElectionK.–A State may elect, at any time, not to implement, in whole or in part, 1 or more of the management systems required under this section. The Secretary may not impose any sanction on, or withhold any benefit from, a State on the basis of such an election.
  (d) T4Procedural RequirementsK.–In developing and implementing a management system under this section, each State shall cooperate with metropolitan planning organizations for urbanized areas of the State and affected agencies receiving assistance under chapter 53 of title 49 and shall consider the results of the management systems in making project selection decisions under this title and under chapter 53.
  (e) T4Intermodal RequirementsK.–The management system required under this section for intermodal transportation facilities and systems shall provide for improvement and integration of all of a State“s transportation systems and shall include methods of achieving the optimum yield from such systems, methods for increasing productivity in the State, methods for increasing use of advanced technologies, and methods to encourage the use of innovative marketing techniques, such as just-in-time deliveries.
  (f) T4Reports.–
    (1) T4Annual reportsK.–Not later than January 1 of each calendar year beginning after December 31, 1992, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report on the progress being made by the Secretary and the States in carrying out this section.
    (2) T4Report on implementationK.–Not later than October 1, 1996, the Comptroller General, in consultation with States, shall transmit to Congress a report on the management systems under this section, including recommendations as to whether, to what extent, and how the management systems should be implemented.
  (g) T4FundingK.–Subject to project approval by the Secretary, a State may obligate funds apportioned after September 30, 1991, under subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of section 104 of this title for developing and establishing management systems required by this section and funds apportioned under section 144 of this title for developing and establishing the bridge management system required by this section.
  (h) T4Review of RegulationsK.–Not later than 10 days after the date of issuance of any regulation under this section, the Secretary shall transmit a copy of such regulation to Congress for review.
