  (a) T4Research and Technology Program.–
    (1) T4Authority of the secretary.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The Secretary may engage in research, development, and technology transfer activities with respect to motor carrier transportation and all phases of highway planning and development (including construction, operation, modernization, development, design, maintenance, safety, financing, and traffic conditions) and the effect thereon of State laws and may test, develop, or assist in testing and developing any material, invention, patented article, or process.
      (B) T4Cooperation, grants, and contractsK.–The Secretary may carry out this section either independently or in cooperation with other Federal departments, agencies, and instrumentalities or by making grants to, and entering into contracts and cooperative agreements with, the National Academy of Sciences, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, or any State agency, authority, association, institution, corporation (profit or nonprofit), organization, or person.
      (C) T4Research fellowships.–
        (i) T4General authorityK.–The Secretary may, acting either independently or in cooperation with other Federal departments, agencies, and instrumentalities, make grants for research fellowships for any purpose for which research is authorized by this section.
        (ii) T4Dwight david eisenhower transportation fellowship programK.–The Secretary shall establish and implement a transportation research fellowship program for the purpose of attracting qualified students to the field of transportation engineering and research. Such program shall be known as the ””Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program““. Of the funds made available pursuant to paragraph (3) for each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1991, the Secretary shall expend not less than $2,000,000 per fiscal year to carry out such program.
    (2) T4Collaborative research and development.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–For the purposes of encouraging innovative solutions to highway problems and stimulating the marketing of new technology by private industry, the Secretary is authorized to undertake, on a cost-shared basis, collaborative research and development with non-Federal entities, including State and local governments, foreign governments, colleges and universities, corporations, institutions, partnerships, sole proprietorships, and trade associations which are incorporated or established under the laws of any State.
      (B) T4AgreementsK.–In carrying out this paragraph, the Secretary may enter into cooperative research and development agreements, as such term is defined under section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a).
      (C) T4Federal shareK.–The Federal share payable on account of activities carried out under a cooperative research and development agreement entered into under this paragraph shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of such activities; except that, if there is substantial public interest or benefit, the Secretary may approve a higher Federal share. All costs directly incurred by the non-Federal partners, including personnel, travel, and hardware development costs, shall be treated as part of the non-Federal share of the cost of such activities for purposes of the preceding sentence.
      (D) T4Utilization of technologyK.–The research, development, or utilization of any technology pursuant to a cooperative research and development agreement entered into under this paragraph, including the terms under which the technology may be licensed and the resulting royalties may be distributed, shall be subject to the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980.
    (3) T4Funds.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The funds necessary to carry out this subsection and subsections (b), (d), and (e) shall be taken by the Secretary out of administrative funds deducted pursuant to section 104(a) of this title and such funds as may be deposited by any cooperating organization or person in a special account of the Treasury of the United States established for such purposes.
      (B) T4Minimum expenditures on long-term research projectsK.–Not less than 15 percent of the funds made available under this paragraph shall be expended on long-term research projects which are unlikely to be completed within 10 years.
    (4) T4Waiver of advertising requirementsK.–The provisions of section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5) shall not be applicable to contracts or agreements entered into under this section.
  (b) T4Mandatory Contents of Research Program.–
    (1) T4Inclusion of certain studiesK.–The Secretary shall include in the highway research program under subsection (a) studies of economic highway geometrics, structures, and desirable weight and size standards for vehicles using the public highways and of the feasibility of uniformity in State regulations with respect to such standards. The highway research program shall also include studies to identify and measure, quantitatively and qualitatively, those factors which relate to economic, social, environmental, and other impacts of highway projects.
    (2) T4SHRP results.–
      (A) T4ImplementationK.–The highway research program under subsection (a) shall include a program to implement results of the strategic highway research program carried out under subsection (d) (including results relating to automatic intrusion alarms for street and highway construction work zones) and to continue the long-term pavement performance tests being carried out under such program.
      (B) T4Minimum fundingK.–Of amounts deducted under section 104(a) of this title, the Secretary shall expend not less than $12,000,000 in fiscal year 1992, $16,000,000 in fiscal year 1993, and $20,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out this paragraph.
    (3) T4Surface Transportation System Performance IndicatorsK.–The highway research program under subsection (a) shall include a coordinated long-term program of research for the development, use, and dissemination of performance indicators to measure the performance of the surface transportation system of the United States, including indicators for productivity, efficiency, energy use, air quality, congestion, safety, maintenance, and other factors which reflect the overall performance of such system.
    (4) T4Short haul passenger transportation systemsK.–The Secretary shall conduct necessary systems research in order to develop a concept for a lightweight, pneumatic tire multiple-unit, battery-powered system, in conjunction with recharging stations at strategic locations. The Secretary shall create a potential systems concept and, as part of the surface transportation research and development plan under subsection (b), make recommendations to Congress by January 15, 1993.
    (5) T4Supporting infrastructureK.–The Secretary shall establish a program to strengthen and expand surface transportation infrastructure research and development. The program shall include the following elements:
      (A) Methods and materials for improving the durability of surface transportation infrastructure facilities and extending the life of bridge structures, including new and innovative technologies to reduce corrosion.
      (B) Expansion of the Department of Transportation“s inspection and mobile nondestructive examination capabilities, including consideration of the use of high energy field radiography for more thorough and more frequent inspections of bridge structures as well as added support to State highway departments.
      (C) The Secretary shall determine whether or not to initiate a construction equipment research and development program directed toward the reduction of costs associated with the construction of highways and mass transit systems. The Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report containing such determination on or before July 1, 1992.
      (D) The Secretary shall undertake or supervise surface transportation infrastructure research to develop–
        (i) nondestructive evaluation equipment for use with existing infrastructure facilities and for next generation infrastructure facilities that utilize advanced materials;
        (ii) information technologies, including–
          (I) appropriate computer programs to collect and analyze data on the status of the existing infrastructure facilities for enhancing management, growth, and capacity; and
          (II) dynamic simulation models of surface transportation systems for predicting capacity, safety, and infrastructure durability problems, for evaluating planned research projects, and for testing the strengths and weaknesses of proposed revisions in surface transportation operations programs; and
        (iii) new and innovative technologies to enhance and facilitate field construction and rehabilitation techniques for minimizing disruption during repair and maintenance of existing structures.
  (c) T4State Planning and Research.–
    (1) T4General ruleK.–2 percent of the sums apportioned for each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1991, to any State under sections 104 and 144 of this title and for highway projects under section 103(e)(4) of this title shall be available for expenditure by the State highway department, in consultation with the Secretary, only for the following purposes:
      (A) Engineering and economic surveys and investigations.
      (B) The planning of future highway programs and local public transportation systems and for planning for the financing thereof, including statewide planning under section 135 of this title.
      (C) Development and implementation of management systems under section 303 of this title.
      (D) Studies of the economy, safety, and convenience of highway usage and the desirable regulation and equitable taxation thereof.
      (E) Research, development, and technology transfer activities necessary in connection with the planning, design, construction, and maintenance of highway, public transportation, and intermodal transportation systems and study, research, and training on engineering standards and construction materials for such systems, including evaluation and accreditation of inspection and testing and the regulation and taxation of their use.
    (2) T4Minimum expenditures on research, development, and technology transfer activitiesK.–Not less than 25 percent of the funds which are apportioned to a State for a fiscal year and are subject to paragraph (1) shall be expended by the State for research, development, and technology transfer activities described in paragraph (1) relating to highway, public transportation, and intermodal transportation systems unless the State certifies to the Secretary for such fiscal year that total expenditures by the State for transportation planning under sections 134 and 135 will exceed 75 percent of the amount of such funds and the Secretary accepts such certification.
    (3) T4Federal shareK.–The Federal share payable on account of any project financed with funds which are subject to paragraph (1) shall be 80 percent unless the Secretary determines that the interests of the Federal-aid highway program would be best served by decreasing or eliminating the non-Federal share.
    (4) T4Administration of sumsK.–Funds which are subject to paragraph (1) shall be combined and administered by the Secretary as a single fund which shall be available for obligation for the same period as funds apportioned under section 104(b)(1) of this title.
  (d) T4Strategic Highway Research Program.–
    (1) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary, in consultation with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, shall carry out such research, development, and technology transfer activities as the Secretary determines to be strategically important to the national highway transportation system.
    (2) T4Cooperative agreementsK.–The Secretary may make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements with, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials and the National Academy of Sciences to carry out such activities under this subsection as the Secretary determines are appropriate. Advance payments may be made as necessary to carry out the program under this subsection.
    (3) T4Period of availabilityK.–Funds set aside to carry out this subsection shall remain available for the fiscal year in which such funds are made available and the three succeeding fiscal years.
    (4) T4Set asideK.–As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1987 in fiscal year 1987 and on October 1 of each of fiscal years 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991, the Secretary shall set aside to carry out this subsection not to exceed \1/4\ of 1 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for the Federal-aid systems, for highway assistance programs under section 103(e)(4) of this title, for bridge replacement and rehabilitation under section 144 of this title, for elimination of hazards under section 152 of this title, and for elimination of hazards of railway-highway crossings under section 130 of this title. In the case of funds authorized for apportionment on the Interstate System, the Secretary shall set aside that portion of such funds (subject to the overall limitation of \1/4\ of 1 percent) in the year next preceding the fiscal year for which such funds are authorized for such System.
    (5) T4Annual reportK.–The Secretary shall transmit a report annually beginning on January 1, 1988, to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives which provides information on the progress and research findings the \1\N program conducted under this subsection.
    (6) T4Limitation of remedies.–
      (A) T4Same remedy as if united statesK.–The remedy against the United States provided by sections 1346(b) and 2672 of title 28, United States Code, for injury, loss of property, personal injury, or death shall apply to any claim against the National Academy of Sciences for money damages for injury, loss of property, personal injury, or death caused by any negligent or wrongful act or omission arising from activities conducted under or in connection with this subsection. Any such claim shall be subject to the limitations and exceptions which would be applicable to such claim if such claim were against the United States. With respect to any such claim, the Secretary shall be treated as the head of the appropriate Federal agency for purposes of sections 2672 and 2675 of such title.
      (B) T4Exclusiveness of remedyK.–The remedy referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be exclusive of any other civil action or proceeding for the purpose of determining liability arising from any such act or omission without regard to when the act or omission occurred.
      (C) T4TreatmentK.–Employees of the National Academy of Sciences and other individuals appointed by the President of the National Academy of Sciences and acting on its behalf in connection with activities carried out under this subsection shall be treated as if they are employees of the Federal Government under section 2671 of title 28, United States Code, for purposes of a civil action or proceeding with respect to a claim described in subparagraph (A); and the civil action or proceeding shall proceed in the same manner as any proceeding under chapter 171 of such title, or any proceeding under chapter 171 of such title or action against the United States filed pursuant to section 1346(b) of such title, and shall be subject to the limitations and exceptions applicable to such a proceeding or action.
      (D) T4RemovalK.–Upon certification by the Attorney General that a civil action or proceeding with respect to a claim described in subparagraph (A) is being brought in a State court, such civil action or proceeding shall be removed from the State court without bond at any time before trial by the Attorney General to the district court of the United States for the district and division embracing the place wherein it is pending and the proceeding shall be deemed a tort action brought against the United States under the provisions of title 28, United States Code. For purposes of removal, the certification of the Attorney General under this subparagraph shall be conclusive.
      (E) T4Sources of paymentsK.–Payment of any award, compromise, or settlement of a civil action or proceeding with respect to a claim described in subparagraph (A) shall be paid first out of insurance maintained by the National Academy of Sciences, second from funds made available to carry out this subsection, and then from sums made available under section 1304 of title 31, United States Code. For purposes of such section, such an award, compromise, or settlement shall be deemed to be a judgment, award, or settlement payable under section 2414 or 2672 of title 28, United States Code. The Secretary may establish a reserve of funds made available to carry out this subsection for making payments under this paragraph.
  (e) T4Applied Research and Technology Program.–
    (1) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary shall establish and implement in accordance with this subsection an applied research and technology program for the purpose of accelerating testing, evaluation, and implementation of technologies which are designed to improve the durability, efficiency, environmental impact, productivity, and safety of highway, transit, and intermodal transportation systems.
    (2) T4GuidelinesK.–Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall issue guidelines to carry out this subsection. Such guidelines shall include:
      (A) T4TechnologiesK.–Guidelines on the selection of both foreign and domestic technologies to be tested.
      (B) T4Test locationsK.–Guidelines on the selection of locations at which tests will be conducted. Such guidelines shall ensure that testing is conducted in a range of climatic, traffic, geographic, and environmental conditions, as appropriate for the technology being tested.
      (C) T4DataK.–Guidelines for the scientific collection, evaluation, and dissemination of appropriate test data.
    (3) T4TechnologiesK.–Technologies which may be tested under this subsection include, but are not limited to–
      (A) accelerated construction materials and procedures;
      (B) environmentally beneficial materials and procedures;
      (C) materials and techniques which provide enhanced serviceability and longevity under adverse climactic,\2\N environmental, and load effects;
      (D) technologies which increase the efficiency and productivity of vehicular travel; and
      (E) technologies and techniques which enhance the safety and accessibility of vehicular transportation systems.
    (4) T4Heated bridge technologies.–
      (A) T4ProjectsK.–As part of the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out projects to assess the state of technology with respect to heating the decks of bridges and the feasibility of, and costs and benefits associated with, heating the decks of bridges. Such projects shall be carried out by installing heating equipment on the decks of bridges which are being replaced or rehabilitated under section 144 of this title.
      (B) T4Minimum number of bridgesK.–The number of bridges for which heating equipment is installed under this subsection in a fiscal year shall not be less than 10 bridges.
    (5) T4Elastomer modified asphaltK.–As part of the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out a project in the State of New Jersey to demonstrate the environmental and safety benefits of elastomer modified asphalt.
    (6) T4High performance blended hydraulic cementK.–As part of the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out a project in the State of Missouri to demonstrate the durability and construction efficiency of high performance blended hydraulic cement.
    (7) T4Thin bonded overlay and surface lamination of pavementK.–As part of the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out projects to assess the state of technology with respect to thin bonded overlay (including inorganic bonding systems) and surface lamination of pavement, and to assess the feasibility of, and costs and benefits associated with, the repair, rehabilitation, and upgrading of highways and bridges with overlay. Such projects shall be carried out so as to minimize overlay thickness, minimize initial laydown costs, minimize time out of service, and maximize lifecycle durability.
    (8) T4All weather pavement markingsK.–As part of the program under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out a program to demonstrate the safety and durability of all weather pavement markings.
    (9) T4Testing of highway technologiesK.–Projects carried out under this subsection to test technologies related to highways shall be carried out on highways on the Federal-aid system.
    (10) T4Technical assistanceK.–The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to States and localities in carrying out projects under this subsection.
    (11) T4Annual reportK.–Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this subsection, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report on the progress and research findings of the program carried out under this subsection.
    (12) T4Federal shareK.–The Federal share of the cost of a project carried out under this subsection shall not exceed 80 percent.
    (13) T4FundingK.–The Secretary shall expend from administrative and research funds deducted under section 104(a) of this title and funds made available under section 5313(a) of title 49, ””$35,000,000 \3\N for fiscal year 1992 and $41,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out this subsection. Of such amounts, in each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997, the Secretary shall expend not less than $4,000,000 per fiscal year to carry out projects related to heated bridge technologies under paragraph (4), not less than $2,500,000 per fiscal year to carry out projects related to thin bonded overlay and surface lamination of pavements under paragraph (7), and not less than $2,000,000 per fiscal year to carry out projects related to all weather pavement markings under paragraph (8). Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain available until expended and shall not be subject to any obligation limitation.
  (f) T4Seismic Research Program.–
    (1) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary shall establish a program to study the vulnerability of highways, tunnels, and bridges on the Federal-aid system to earthquakes and develop and implement cost-effective methods of retrofitting such highways, tunnels, and bridges to reduce such vulnerability.
    (2) T4Cooperation with national center for earthquake engineering researchK.–The Secretary shall conduct the program under this section in cooperation with the National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research at the University of Buffalo.
    (3) T4Cooperation with agencies participating in national hazards reduction programK.–The Secretary shall further conduct the program under this section in consultation and cooperation with Federal departments and agencies participating in the National Hazards Reduction Program \4\N established by section 5 of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 and shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that the program under this subsection is consistent with–
      (A) planning and coordination activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency under section 5(b)(1) of such Act; and
      (B) the plan developed by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency under section 8(b) of such Act.
    (4) T4FundingK.–Of amounts deducted under section 104(a) of this title, the Secretary shall expend not more than $2,000,000 per fiscal year in each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out this subsection.
    (5) T4ReportK.–Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report on the progress and research findings of the program carried out under this section.
  (g) As used in this section the term ””safety““ includes, but is not limited to, highway safety systems, research and development relating to vehicle, highway, and driver characteristics, accident investigations, communications, emergency medical care, and transportation of the injured.
  (h) The Secretary shall report to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives in January 1983, and in January of every second year thereafter, estimates of the future highway needs of the Nation. The biennial reports required under this subsection shall provide the means, including all necessary information, to relate and compare the conditions and service measures used in different years when such measures are changed.
