  (a) T4Categorical Exclusion Determinations.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary may assign, and a State may assume, responsibility for determining whether certain designated activities are included within classes of action identified in regulation by the Secretary that are categorically excluded from requirements for environmental assessments or environmental impact statements pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Council on Environmental Quality under part 1500 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on October 1, 2003).
    (2) T4Scope of authorityK.–A determination described in paragraph (1) shall be made by a State in accordance with criteria established by the Secretary and only for types of activities specifically designated by the Secretary.
    (3) T4CriteriaK.–The criteria under paragraph (2) shall include provisions for public availability of information consistent with section 552 of title 5 and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
  (b) T4Other Applicable Federal Laws.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–If a State assumes responsibility under subsection (a), the Secretary may also assign and the State may assume all or part of the responsibilities of the Secretary for environmental review, consultation, or other related actions required under any Federal law applicable to activities that are classified by the Secretary as categorical exclusions, with the exception of government-to-government consultation with Indian tribes, subject to the same procedural and substantive requirements as would be required if that responsibility were carried out by the Secretary.
    (2) T4Sole responsibilityK.–A State that assumes responsibility under paragraph (1) with respect to a Federal law shall be solely responsible and solely liable for complying with and carrying out that law, and the Secretary shall have no such responsibility or liability.
  (c) T4Memoranda of Understanding.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary and the State, after providing public notice and opportunity for comment, shall enter into a memorandum of understanding setting forth the responsibilities to be assigned under this section and the terms and conditions under which the assignments are made, including establishment of the circumstances under which the Secretary would reassume responsibility for categorical exclusion determinations.
    (2) T4TermK.–A memorandum of understanding–
      (A) shall have a term of not more than 3 years; and
      (B) shall be renewable.
    (3) T4Acceptance of jurisdictionK.–In a memorandum of understanding, the State shall consent to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal courts for the compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any responsibility of the Secretary that the State assumes.
    (4) T4MonitoringK.–The Secretary shall–
      (A) monitor compliance by the State with the memorandum of understanding and the provision by the State of financial resources to carry out the memorandum of understanding; and
      (B) take into account the performance by the State when considering renewal of the memorandum of understanding.
  (d) T4TerminationK.–The Secretary may terminate any assumption of responsibility under a memorandum of understanding on a determination that the State is not adequately carrying out the responsibilities assigned to the State.
  (e) T4State Agency Deemed to Be Federal AgencyK.–A State agency that is assigned a responsibility under a memorandum of understanding shall be deemed to be a Federal agency for the purposes of the Federal law under which the responsibility is exercised.
