  (a) T4Establishment.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary shall carry out a surface transportation project delivery pilot program (referred to in this section as the ””program““).
    (2) T4Assumption of responsibility.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Subject to the other provisions of this section, with the written agreement of the Secretary and a State, which may be in the form of a memorandum of understanding, the Secretary may assign, and the State may assume, the responsibilities of the Secretary with respect to one or more highway projects within the State under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
      (B) T4Additional responsibilityK.–If a State assumes responsibility under subparagraph (A)–
        (i) the Secretary may assign to the State, and the State may assume, all or part of the responsibilities of the Secretary for environmental review, consultation, or other action required under any Federal environmental law pertaining to the review or approval of a specific project; but
        (ii) the Secretary may not assign–
          (I) responsibility for any conformity determination required under section 176 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7506); or
          (II) any responsibility imposed on the Secretary by section 134 or 135.
      (C) T4Procedural and substantive requirementsK.–A State shall assume responsibility under this section subject to the same procedural and substantive requirements as would apply if that responsibility were carried out by the Secretary.
      (D) T4Federal responsibilityK.–Any responsibility of the Secretary not explicitly assumed by the State by written agreement under this section shall remain the responsibility of the Secretary.
      (E) T4No effect on authorityK.–Nothing in this section preempts or interferes with any power, jurisdiction, responsibility, or authority of an agency, other than the Department of Transportation, under applicable law (including regulations) with respect to a project.
  (b) T4State Participation.–
    (1) T4Number of participating statesK.–The Secretary may permit not more than 5 States (including the States of Alaska, California, Ohio, Oklahoma, and Texas) to participate in the program.
    (2) T4ApplicationK.–Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations that establish requirements relating to information required to be contained in any application of a State to participate in the program, including, at a minimum–
      (A) the projects or classes of projects for which the State anticipates exercising the authority that may be granted under the program;
      (B) verification of the financial resources necessary to carry out the authority that may be granted under the program; and
      (C) evidence of the notice and solicitation of public comment by the State relating to participation of the State in the program, including copies of comments received from that solicitation.
    (3) T4Public notice.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Each State that submits an application under this subsection shall give notice of the intent of the State to participate in the program not later than 30 days before the date of submission of the application.
      (B) T4Method of notice and solicitationK.–The State shall provide notice and solicit public comment under this paragraph by publishing the complete application of the State in accordance with the appropriate public notice law of the State.
    (4) T4Selection criteriaK.–The Secretary may approve the application of a State under this section only if–
      (A) the regulatory requirements under paragraph (2) have been met;
      (B) the Secretary determines that the State has the capability, including financial and personnel, to assume the responsibility; and
      (C) the head of the State agency having primary jurisdiction over highway matters enters into a written agreement with the Secretary described in subsection (c).
    (5) T4Other federal agency viewsK.–If a State applies to assume a responsibility of the Secretary that would have required the Secretary to consult with another Federal agency, the Secretary shall solicit the views of the Federal agency before approving the application.
  (c) T4Written AgreementK.–A written agreement under this section shall–
    (1) be executed by the Governor or the top-ranking transportation official in the State who is charged with responsibility for highway construction;
    (2) be in such form as the Secretary may prescribe;
    (3) provide that the State–
      (A) agrees to assume all or part of the responsibilities of the Secretary described in subsection (a);
      (B) expressly consents, on behalf of the State, to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal courts for the compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any responsibility of the Secretary assumed by the State;
      (C) certifies that State laws (including regulations) are in effect that–
        (i) authorize the State to take the actions necessary to carry out the responsibilities being assumed; and
        (ii) are comparable to section 552 of title 5, including providing that any decision regarding the public availability of a document under those State laws is reviewable by a court of competent jurisdiction; and
      (D) agrees to maintain the financial resources necessary to carry out the responsibilities being assumed.
  (d) T4Jurisdiction.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The United States district courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action against a State for failure to carry out any responsibility of the State under this section.
    (2) T4Legal standards and requirementsK.–A civil action under paragraph (1) shall be governed by the legal standards and requirements that would apply in such a civil action against the Secretary had the Secretary taken the actions in question.
    (3) T4InterventionK.–The Secretary shall have the right to intervene in any action described in paragraph (1).
  (e) T4Effect of Assumption of ResponsibilityK.–A State that assumes responsibility under subsection (a)(2) shall be solely responsible and solely liable for carrying out, in lieu of the Secretary, the responsibilities assumed under subsection (a)(2), until the program is terminated as provided in subsection (i).
  (f) T4Limitations on AgreementsK.–Nothing in this section permits a State to assume any rulemaking authority of the Secretary under any Federal law.
  (g) T4Audits.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–To ensure compliance by a State with any agreement of the State under subsection (c) (including compliance by the State with all Federal laws for which responsibility is assumed under subsection (a)(2)), for each State participating in the program under this section, the Secretary shall conduct–
      (A) semiannual audits during each of the first 2 years of State participation; and
      (B) annual audits during each subsequent year of State participation.
    (2) T4Public availability and comment.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–An audit conducted under paragraph (1) shall be provided to the public for comment.
      (B) T4ResponseK.–Not later than 60 days after the date on which the period for public comment ends, the Secretary shall respond to public comments received under subparagraph (A).
  (h) T4Report to CongressK.–The Secretary shall submit to Congress an annual report that describes the administration of the program.
    (i) T4Termination.–
      (1) T4In generalK.–Except as provided in paragraph (2), the program shall terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of this section.
      (2) T4Termination by secretaryK.–The Secretary may terminate the participation of any State in the program if–
        (A) the Secretary determines that the State is not adequately carrying out the responsibilities assigned to the State;
        (B) the Secretary provides to the State–
          (i) notification of the determination of noncompliance; and
          (ii) a period of at least 30 days during which to take such corrective action as the Secretary determines is necessary to comply with the applicable agreement; and
        (C) the State, after the notification and period provided under subparagraph (B), fails to take satisfactory corrective action, as determined by Secretary.
