  (a) Each State shall have a highway safety program approved by the Secretary, designed to reduce traffic accidents and deaths, injuries, and property damage resulting therefrom. Such programs shall be in accordance with uniform guidelines promulgated by the Secretary. Such uniform guidelines shall be expressed in terms of performance criteria. In addition, such uniform guidelines shall include programs (1) to reduce injuries and deaths resulting from motor vehicles being driven in excess of posted speed limits, (2) to encourage the proper use of occupant protection devices (including the use of safety belts and child restraint systems) by occupants of motor vehicles and to increase public awareness of the benefit of motor vehicles equipped with airbags, (3) to reduce deaths and injuries resulting from persons driving motor vehicles while impaired by alcohol or a controlled substance, (4) to reduce deaths and injuries resulting from accidents involving motor vehicles and motorcycles, (5) to reduce injuries and deaths resulting from accidents involving school buses, and (6) to improve law enforcement services in motor vehicle accident prevention, traffic supervision, and post-accident procedures. If the Secretary does not designate as priority programs those programs described in the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the reasons for not prioritizing such programs. The Secretary shall establish a highway safety program for the collection and reporting of data on traffic-related deaths and injuries by the States. Under such program, the States shall collect and report such data as the Secretary may require. The purposes of the program are to ensure national uniform data on such deaths and injuries and to allow the Secretary to make determinations for use in developing programs to reduce such deaths and injuries and making recommendations to Congress concerning legislation necessary to implement such programs. The program shall include information obtained by the Secretary under section 4007 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 and provide for annual reports to the Secretary on the efforts being made by the States in reducing deaths and injuries occurring at highway construction sites and the effectiveness and results of such efforts. The Secretary shall establish minimum reporting criteria for the program. Such criteria shall include, but not be limited to, criteria on deaths and injuries resulting from police pursuits, school bus accidents, and speeding, on traffic-related deaths and injuries at highway construction sites and on the configuration of commercial motor vehicles involved in motor vehicle accidents. Such uniform guidelines shall be promulgated by the Secretary so as to improve driver performance (including, but not limited to, driver education, driver testing to determine proficiency to operate motor vehicles, driver examinations (both physical and mental) and driver licensing) and to improve pedestrian performance and bicycle safety. In addition such uniform guidelines shall include, but not be limited to, provisions for an effective record system of accidents (including injuries and deaths resulting therefrom), accident investigations to determine the probable causes of accidents, injuries, and deaths, vehicle registration, operation, and inspection, highway design and maintenance (including lighting, markings, and surface treatment), traffic control, vehicle codes and laws, surveillance of traffic for detection and correction of high or potentially high accident locations, and emergency services. Such guidelines as are applicable to State highway safety programs shall, to the extent determined appropriate by the Secretary, be applicable to federally administered areas where a Federal department or agency controls the highways or supervises traffic operations.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall not approve any State highway safety program under this section which does not–
      (A) provide that the Governor of the State shall be responsible for the administration of the program through a State highway safety agency which shall have adequate powers, and be suitably equipped and organized to carry out, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, such program.
      (B) authorize political subdivisions of such State to carry out local highway safety programs within their jurisdictions as a part of the State highway safety program if such local highway safety programs are approved by the Governor and are in accordance with the uniform guidelines of the Secretary promulgated under this section.
      (C) provide that at least 40 per centum of all Federal funds apportioned under this section to such State for any fiscal year will be expended by the political subdivisions of such State in carrying out local highway safety programs authorized in accordance with subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
      (D) provide adequate and reasonable access for the safe and convenient movement of physically handicapped persons, including those in wheelchairs, across curbs constructed or replaced on or after July 1, 1976, at all pedestrian crosswalks throughout the State.
      (E) provide for programs (which may include financial incentives and disincentives) to encourage the use of safety belts by drivers of, and passengers in, motor vehicles.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to waive the requirement of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of this subsection, in whole or in part, for a fiscal year for any State whenever he determines that there is an insufficient number of local highway safety programs to justify the expenditure in such State of such percentage of Federal funds during such fiscal year.
    (3) T4Administrative requirementsK.–The Secretary may not approve a State highway safety program under this section which does not–
      (A) provide that the Governor of the State shall be responsible for the administration of the program through a State highway safety agency which shall have adequate powers and be suitably equipped and organized to carry out, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, such program;
      (B) authorize political subdivisions of the State to carry out local highway safety programs within their jurisdictions as a part of the State highway safety program if such local highway safety programs are approved by the Governor and are in accordance with the minimum standards established by the Secretary under this section;
      (C) except as provided in paragraph (5), provide that at least 40 percent of all Federal funds apportioned under this section to the State for any fiscal year will be expended by the political subdivisions of the State, including Indian tribal governments, in carrying out local highway safety programs authorized in accordance with subparagraph (B); and
      (D) provide adequate and reasonable access for the safe and convenient movement of individuals with disabilities, including those in wheelchairs, across curbs constructed or replaced on or after July 1, 1976, at all pedestrian crosswalks throughout the State.
    (4) T4WaiverK.–The Secretary may waive the requirement of paragraph (3)(C), in whole or in part, for a fiscal year for any State whenever the Secretary determines that there is an insufficient number of local highway safety programs to justify the expenditure in the State of such percentage of Federal funds during the fiscal year.
    (5) T4Use of technology for traffic enforcementK.–The Secretary may encourage States to use technologically advanced traffic enforcement devices (including the use of automatic speed detection devices such as photo-radar) by law enforcement officers.
  (c) Funds authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section shall be used to aid the States to conduct the highway safety programs approved in accordance with subsection (a), including development and implementation of manpower training programs, and of demonstration programs that the Secretary determines will contribute directly to the reduction of accidents, and deaths and injuries resulting therefrom. Such funds shall be subject to a deduction not to exceed 5 per centum for the necessary costs of administering the provisions of this section, and the remainder shall be apportioned among the several States. Such funds shall be apportioned 75 per centum in the ratio which the population of each State bears to the total population of all the States, as shown by the latest available Federal census, and 25 per centum in the ratio which the public road mileage in each State bears to the total public road mileage in all States. For the purposes of this subsection, a ””public road““ means any road under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel. Public road mileage as used in this subsection shall be determined as of the end of the calendar year preceding the year in which the funds are apportioned and shall be certified to by the Governor of the State and subject to approval by the Secretary. The annual apportionment to each State shall not be less than one-half of 1 per centum of the total apportionment, except that the apportionments to the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall not be less than one-quarter of 1 per centum of the total apportionment. The Secretary shall not apportion any funds under the subsection to any State which is not implementing a highway safety program approved by the secretary in accordance with this section. For the purpose of the seventh sentence of this subsection, a highway safety program approved by the Secretary shall not include any requirement that a State implement such a program by adopting or enforcing any law, rule, or regulation based on a guideline promulgated by the Secretary under this section requiring any motorcycle operator eighteen years of age or older or passenger eighteen years of age or older to wear a safety helmet when operating or riding a motorcycle on the streets and highways of that State. Implementation of a highway safety program under this section shall not be construed to require the Secretary to require compliance with every uniform guideline, or with every element of every uniform guideline, in every State. Funds apportioned under this section to any State, that does not have a highway safety program approved by the Secretary or that is not implementing an approved program, shall be reduced by amounts equal to not less than 50 per centum of the amounts that would otherwise be apportioned to the State under this section, until such time as the Secretary approves such program or determines that the State is implementing an approved program, as appropriate. The Secretary shall consider the gravity of the State“s failure to have or implement an approved program in determining the amount of the reduction. The Secretary shall promptly apportion to the State the funds withheld from its apportionment if he approves the State“s highway safety program or determines that the State has begun implementing an approved program, as appropriate, prior to the end of the fiscal year for which the funds were withheld. If the Secretary determines that the State did not correct its failure within such period, the Secretary shall reapportion the withheld funds to the other States in accordance with the formula specified in this subsection not later than 30 days after such determination.
  (d) All provisions of chapter 1 of this title that are applicable to National Highway System highway funds other than provisions relating to the apportionment formula and provisions limiting the expenditure of such funds to the Federal-aid systems, shall apply to the highway safety funds authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, except as determined by the Secretary to be inconsistent with this section, and except that the aggregate of all expenditures made during any fiscal year by a State and its political subdivisions (exclusive of Federal funds) for carrying out the State highway safety program (other than planning and administration) shall be available for the purpose of crediting such State during such fiscal year for the non-Federal share of the cost of any project under this section (other than one for planning or administration) without regard to whether such expenditures were actually made in connection with such project and except that, in the case of a local highway safety program carried out by an Indian tribe, if the Secretary is satisfied that an Indian tribe does not have sufficient funds available to meet the non-Federal share of the cost of such program, he may increase the Federal share of the cost thereof payable under this Act to the extent necessary. In applying such provisions of chapter 1 in carrying out this section the term ””State highway department““ as used in such provisions shall mean the Governor of a State for the purposes of this section.
  (e) Uniform guidelines promulgated by the Secretary to carry out this section shall be developed in cooperation with the States, their political subdivisions, appropriate Federal departments and agencies, and such other public and private organizations as the Secretary deems appropriate.
  (f) The Secretary may make arrangements with other Federal departments and agencies for assistance in the preparation of uniform guidelines for the highway safety programs contemplated by subsection (a) and in the administration of such programs. Such departments and agencies are directed to cooperate in such preparation and administration, on a reimbursable basis.
  (g) Nothing in this section authorizes the appropriation or expenditure of funds for (1) highway construction, maintenance, or design (other than design of safety features of highways to be incorporated into guidelines) or (2) any purpose for which funds are authorized by section 403 of this title.
     [(h) Repealed. Pub. L. 97–35, title XI, § 1107(c), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 626.]
    (i) For the purpose of the application of this section on Indian reservations, ””State““ and ””Governor of a State““ includes the Secretary of the Interior and ””political subdivision of a State““ includes an Indian tribe: T3ProvidedK, That, notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (C) of subsection (b)(1) hereof, 95 per centum of the funds apportioned to the Secretary of the Interior after date of enactment, shall be expended by Indian tribes to carry out highway safety programs within their jurisdictions: T3And provided furtherK, That the provisions of subparagraph (E) of subsection (b)(1) hereof shall be applicable except in those tribal jurisdictions in which the Secretary determines such programs would not be practicable.
    (j) T4Rulemaking ProcessK.–The Secretary shall, not later than September 1, 1987, begin a rulemaking process to determine those programs most effective in reducing accidents, injuries, and deaths. Not later than April 1, 1988, the Secretary shall promulgate a final rule establishing those programs determined to be most effective in reducing accidents, injuries, and deaths. If such rule is promulgated by April 1, 1988, then it shall take effect October 1, 1988. If such rule is not promulgated by April 1, 1988, it shall take effect October 1, 1989. After a rule is promulgated in accordance with this subsection, the Secretary may from time to time thereafter revise such rule under a rulemaking process described in the first sentence of this subsection. Any rule under this subsection shall be promulgated taking into account consideration of the States having a major role in establishing programs described in the first sentence of this subsection. When a rule promulgated in accordance with this subsection takes effect, only those programs established by such rule as most effective in reducing accidents, injuries, and deaths shall be eligible to receive Federal financial assistance under this section.
    (k)      (1) Subject to the provisions of this subsection, the Secretary shall make a grant to any State which includes, as part of its highway safety program under section 402 of this title, the use of a comprehensive computerized safety recordkeeping system designed to correlate data regarding traffic accidents, drivers, motor vehicles, and roadways. Any such grant may only be used by such State to establish and maintain a comprehensive computerized traffic safety recordkeeping system or to obtain and operate components to support highway safety priority programs identified by the Secretary under this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a report, list, schedule, or survey is prepared by or for a State or political subdivision thereof under this subsection, such report, list, schedule, or survey shall not be admitted as evidence or used in any suit or action for damages arising out of any matter mentioned in such report, list, schedule, or survey.
      (2) No State may receive a grant under this subsection in more than two fiscal years.
      (3) The amount of the grant to any State under this subsection for the first fiscal year such State is eligible for a grant under this subsection shall equal 10 per centum of the amount apportioned to such State for fiscal year 1985 under this section. The amount of a grant to any State under this subsection for the second fiscal year such State is eligible for a grant under this subsection shall equal 10 per centum of the amount apportioned to such State for fiscal year 1986 under this section.
      (4) A State is eligible for a grant under this subsection if–
        (A) it certifies to the Secretary that it has in operation a computerized traffic safety recordkeeping system and identifies proposed means of upgrading the system acceptable to the Secretary; or
        (B) it provides to the Secretary a plan acceptable to the Secretary for establishing and maintaining a computerized traffic safety recordkeeping system.
      (5) The Secretary, after making the deduction authorized by the second sentence of subsection (c) of this section for fiscal years 1985 and 1986, shall set aside 10 per centum of the remaining funds authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section for the purpose of making grants under this subsection. Funds set aside under this subsection shall remain available for the fiscal year authorized and for the succeeding fiscal year and any amounts remaining unexpended at the end of such period shall be apportioned in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this section.
