  (a) T4Authority of the Secretary.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary is authorized to use funds appropriated to carry out this section to engage in research on all phases of highway safety and traffic conditions.
    (2) T4Additional authorityK.–In addition, the Secretary may use the funds appropriated to carry out this section, either independently or in cooperation with other Federal departments or agencies, for–
      (A) training or education of highway safety personnel, including training in work zone safety management,
      (B) research fellowships in highway safety,
      (C) development of improved accident investigation procedures,
      (D) emergency service plans,
      (E) demonstration projects, and
      (F) related research and development activities which the Secretary deems will promote the purposes of this section.
    (3) T4Safety definedK.–As used in this section, the term ””safety““ includes highway safety and highway safety-related research and development, including research and development relating to highway and driver characteristics, crash investigations, communications, emergency medical care, and transportation of the injured.
  (b) T4Drugs and Driver BehaviorK.–In addition to the research authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary, in consultation with other Government and private agencies as may be necessary, is authorized to carry out safety research on the following:
    (1) The relationship between the consumption and use of drugs and their effect upon highway safety and drivers of motor vehicles.
    (2) Driver behavior research, including the characteristics of driver performance, the relationships of mental and physical abilities or disabilities to the driving task, and the relationship of frequency of driver crash involvement to highway safety.
    (3) Measures that may deter drugged driving.
    (4) Programs to train law enforcement officers on motor vehicle pursuits conducted by the officers.
  (c) The research authorized by subsections (a) and (b) of this section may be conducted by the Secretary through grants and contracts with public and private agencies, institutions, and individuals.
  (d) The Secretary may, where he deems it to be in furtherance of the purposes of section 402 of this title, vest in State or local agencies, on such terms and conditions as he deems appropriate, title to equipment purchased for demonstration projects with funds authorized by this section.
  (e) In addition to the research authorized by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall, either independently or in cooperation with other Federal departments or agencies, conduct research into, and make grants to or contracts with State or local agencies, institutions, and individuals for projects to demonstrate the administrative adjudication of traffic infractions. Such administrative adjudication demonstration projects shall be designed to improve highway safety by developing fair, efficient, and effective processes and procedures for traffic infraction adjudication, utilizing appropriate punishment, training, and rehabilitative measures for traffic offenders. The Secretary shall report to Congress by July 1,1975, and each year thereafter during the continuance of the program, on the research and demonstration projects authorized by this subsection, and shall include in such report a comparison of the fairness, efficiency, and effectiveness of administrative adjudication of traffic infractions with other methods of handling such infractions.
  (f) T4Collaborative Research and Development.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–For the purpose of encouraging innovative solutions to highway safety problems, stimulating voluntary improvements in highway safety, and stimulating the marketing of new highway safety-related technology by private industry, the Secretary is authorized to undertake, on a cost-shared basis, collaborative research and development with non-Federal entities, including State and local governments, colleges, and universities and corporations, partnerships, sole proprietorships, and trade associations that are incorporated or established under the laws of any State or the United States. This collaborative research may include crash data collection and analysis; driver and pedestrian behavior; and demonstrations of technology.
    (2) T4Cooperative agreementsK.–In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary may enter into cooperative research and development agreements, as defined in section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a); except that in entering into such agreements, the Secretary may agree to provide not more than 50 percent of the cost of any research or development project selected by the Secretary under this subsection.
    (3) T4Project selectionK.–In selecting projects to be conducted under this subsection, the Secretary shall establish a procedure to consider the views of experts and the public concerning the project areas.
    (4) T4Applicability of stevenson-wydler technology innovation actK.–The research, development, or utilization of any technology pursuant to an agreement under the provisions of this subsection, including the terms under which technology may be licensed and the resulting royalties may be distributed, shall be subject to the provisions of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980.
