  (a) T4General Authority.–
    (1) T4Authority to make grantsK.–Subject to the requirements of this section, the Secretary shall make grants to States that adopt and implement effective programs to reduce traffic safety problems resulting from individuals driving while under the influence of alcohol. Such grants may only be used by recipient States to implement and enforce such programs.
    (2) T4Maintenance of effortK.–No grant may be made to a State under this section in any fiscal year unless the State enters into such agreements with the Secretary as the Secretary may require to ensure that the State will maintain its aggregate expenditures from all other sources for alcohol traffic safety programs at or above the average level of such expenditures in its 2 fiscal years preceding the date of enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century.
    (3) T4Maximum period of eligibilityK.–No State may receive grants under this section in more than 7 fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1997.
    (4) T4Federal shareK.–The Federal share of the cost of implementing and enforcing in a fiscal year a program adopted by a State pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not exceed–
      (A) in each of the first and second fiscal years in which the State receives a grant under this section, 75 percent;
      (B) in each of the third and fourth fiscal years in which the State receives a grant under this section, 50 percent; and
      (C) in each of the fifth, sixth, and seventh fiscal years in which the State receives a grant under this section, 25 percent.
  (b) T4Basic Grant Eligibility.–
    (1) T4Basic grant aK.–A State shall become eligible for a grant under this paragraph by adopting or demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Secretary at least 5 of the following:
      (A) T4Administrative license revocationK.–An administrative driver“s license suspension or revocation system for individuals who operate motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol that requires that–
        (i) in the case of an individual who, in any 5-year period beginning after the date of enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, is determined on the basis of a chemical test to have been operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or is determined to have refused to submit to such a test as proposed by a law enforcement officer, the State agency responsible for administering drivers“ licenses, upon receipt of the report of the law enforcement officer–
          (I) shall suspend the driver“s license of such individual for a period of not less than 90 days if such individual is a first offender in such 5-year period; and
          (II) shall suspend the driver“s license of such individual for a period of not less than 1 year, or revoke such license, if such individual is a repeat offender in such 5-year period; and
        (ii) the suspension and revocation referred to under clause (i) shall take effect not later than 30 days after the day on which the individual refused to submit to a chemical test or received notice of having been determined to be driving under the influence of alcohol, in accordance with the procedures of the State.
      (B) T4Underage drinking programK.–An effective system, as determined by the Secretary, for preventing operators of motor vehicles under age 21 from obtaining alcoholic beverages and for preventing persons from making alcoholic beverages available to individuals under age 21. Such system may include the issuance of drivers“ licenses to individuals under age 21 that are easily distinguishable in appearance from drivers“ licenses issued to individuals age 21 or older and the issuance of drivers“ licenses that are tamper resistant.
      (C) T4Enforcement programK.–Either–
        (i) a statewide program for stopping motor vehicles on a nondiscriminatory, lawful basis for the purpose of determining whether the operators of such motor vehicles are driving while under the influence of alcohol; or
        (ii) a statewide special traffic enforcement program for impaired driving that emphasizes publicity for the program.
      (D) T4Graduated licensing systemK.–A 3-stage graduated licensing system for young drivers that includes nighttime driving restrictions during the first 2 stages, requires all vehicle occupants to be properly restrained, and makes it unlawful for a person under age 21 to operate a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of .02 percent or greater.
      (E) T4Drivers with high bacK.–Programs to target individuals with high blood alcohol concentrations who operate a motor vehicle. Such programs may include implementation of a system of graduated penalties and assessment of individuals convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol.
      (F) T4Young adult drinking programsK.–Programs to reduce driving while under the influence of alcohol by individuals age 21 through 34. Such programs may include awareness campaigns; traffic safety partnerships with employers, colleges, and the hospitality industry; assessments of first-time offenders; and incorporation of treatment into judicial sentencing.
      (G) T4Testing for bacK.–An effective system for increasing the rate of testing of the blood alcohol concentrations of motor vehicle drivers involved in fatal accidents and, in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter, a rate of such testing that is equal to or greater than the national average.
    (2) T4Basic grant bK.–A State shall become eligible for a grant under this paragraph by adopting or demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Secretary each of the following:
      (A) T4Fatal impaired driver percentage reductionK.–The percentage of fatally injured drivers with 0.10 percent or greater blood alcohol concentration in the State has decreased in each of the 3 most recent calendar years for which statistics for determining such percentages are available.
      (B) T4Fatal impaired driver percentage comparisonK.–The percentage of fatally injured drivers with 0.10 percent or greater blood alcohol concentration in the State has been lower than the average percentage for all States in each of the calendar years referred to in subparagraph (A).
    (3) T4Basic grant amountK.–The amount of a basic grant made to a State for a fiscal year under this subsection shall equal up to 25 percent of the amount apportioned to the State for fiscal year 1997 under section 402.
  (c) T4Supplemental Grants.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Upon receiving an application from a State, the Secretary may make supplemental grants to the State for meeting 1 or more of the following criteria:
      (A) T4Video equipment for detection of drunk driversK.–The State provides for a program to acquire video equipment to be used in detecting persons who operate motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol and in prosecuting those persons, and to train personnel in the use of that equipment.
      (B) T4Self-sustaining drunk driving prevention programK.–The State provides for a self-sustaining drunk driving prevention program under which a significant portion of the fines or surcharges collected from individuals apprehended and fined for operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol are returned to those communities which have comprehensive programs for the prevention of such operations of motor vehicles.
      (C) T4Reducing driving with a suspended licenseK.–The State enacts and enforces a law to reduce driving with a suspended license. Such law, as determined by the Secretary, may require a ””zebra““ stripe that is clearly visible on the license plate of any motor vehicle owned and operated by a driver with a suspended license.
      (D) T4Use of passive alcohol sensorsK.–The State provides for a program to acquire passive alcohol sensors to be used by police officers in detecting persons who operate motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol, and to train police officers in the use of that equipment.
      (E) T4Effective dwi tracking systemK.–The State demonstrates an effective driving while intoxicated (DWI) tracking system. Such a system, as determined by the Secretary, may include data covering arrests, case prosecutions, court dispositions and sanctions, and provide for the linkage of such data and traffic records systems to appropriate jurisdictions and offices within the State.
      (F) T4Other programsK.–The State provides for other innovative programs to reduce traffic safety problems resulting from individuals driving while under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances, including programs that seek to achieve such a reduction through legal, judicial, enforcement, educational, technological, or other approaches.
    (2) T4EligibilityK.–A State shall be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection in a fiscal year only if the State is eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b) in such fiscal year.
    (3) T4FundingK.–Of the amounts made available to carry out this section in a fiscal year, not to exceed 10 percent shall be available for making grants under this subsection.
  (d) T4Administrative ExpensesK.–Funds authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section in a fiscal year shall be subject to a deduction not to exceed 5 percent for the necessary costs of administering the provisions of this section.
  (e) T4Applicability of ChapterK 1.–The provisions contained in section 402(d) shall apply to this section.
  (f) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section, the following definitions apply:
    (1) T4Alcoholic beverageK.–The term ””alcoholic beverage““ has the meaning given such term in section 158(c).
    (2) T4Controlled substancesK.–The term ””controlled substances““ has the meaning given such term in section 102(6) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)).
    (3) T4Motor vehicleK.–The term ””motor vehicle““ has the meaning given such term in section 405.
