  (a) T4In General.–
    (1) T4AgreementsK.–Subject to paragraphs (2) through (4), the Secretary may enter into agreements to make available lines of credit to 1 or more obligors in the form of direct loans to be made by the Secretary at future dates on the occurrence of certain events for any project selected under section 602.
    (2) T4Use of proceedsK.–The proceeds of a line of credit made available under this section shall be available to pay debt service on project obligations issued to finance eligible project costs, extraordinary repair and replacement costs, operation and maintenance expenses, and costs associated with unexpected Federal or State environmental restrictions.
    (3) T4Risk assessmentK.–Before entering into an agreement under this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and each rating agency providing a preliminary rating opinion letter under section 602(b)(2)(B), shall determine an appropriate capital reserve subsidy amount for each line of credit, taking into account such letter.
    (4) T4Investment-grade rating requirementK.–The funding of a line of credit under this section shall be contingent on the project“s senior obligations receiving an investment-grade rating from at least 1 rating agency.
  (b) T4Terms and Limitations.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–A line of credit under this section with respect to a project shall be on such terms and conditions and contain such covenants, representations, warranties, and requirements (including requirements for audits) as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (2) T4Maximum amountsK.–The total amount of the line of credit shall not exceed 33 percent of the reasonably anticipated eligible project costs.
    (3) T4DrawsK.–Any draw on the line of credit shall represent a direct loan and shall be made only if net revenues from the project (including capitalized interest but not including reasonably required financing reserves) are insufficient to pay the costs specified in subsection (a)(2).
    (4) T4Interest rateK.–The interest rate on a direct loan resulting from a draw on the line of credit shall be not less than the yield on 30-year United States Treasury securities as of the date of execution of the line of credit agreement.
    (5) T4SecurityK.–The line of credit–
      (A) shall–
        (i) be payable, in whole or in part, from tolls, user fees, or other dedicated revenue sources that also secure the senior project obligations; and
        (ii) include a rate covenant, coverage requirement, or similar security feature supporting the project obligations; and
      (B) may have a lien on revenues described in subparagraph (A) subject to any lien securing project obligations.
    (6) T4Period of availabilityK.–The full amount of the line of credit, to the extent not drawn upon, shall be available during the period beginning on the date of substantial completion of the project and ending not later than 10 years after that date.
    (7) T4Rights of third-party creditors.–
      (A) T4Against federal governmentK.–A third-party creditor of the obligor shall not have any right against the Federal Government with respect to any draw on the line of credit.
      (B) T4AssignmentK.–An obligor may assign the line of credit to 1 or more lenders or to a trustee on the lenders“ behalf.
    (8) T4NonsubordinationK.–A direct loan under this section shall not be subordinated to the claims of any holder of project obligations in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation of the obligor.
    (9) T4FeesK.–The Secretary may establish fees at a level sufficient to cover all or a portion of the costs to the Federal Government of providing a line of credit under this section.
    (10) T4Relationship to other credit instrumentsK.–A project that receives a line of credit under this section also shall not receive a secured loan or loan guarantee under section 603 of an amount that, combined with the amount of the line of credit, exceeds 33 percent of eligible project costs.
  (c) T4Repayment.–
    (1) T4Terms and conditionsK.–The Secretary shall establish repayment terms and conditions for each direct loan under this section based on the projected cash flow from project revenues and other repayment sources.
    (2) T4TimingK.–All repayments of principal or interest on a direct loan under this section shall be scheduled to commence not later than 5 years after the end of the period of availability specified in subsection (b)(6) and to conclude, with full repayment of principal and interest, by the date that is 25 years after the end of the period of availability specified in subsection (b)(6).
