  (a) In general
     Duties assessed pursuant to a countervailing duty order, an antidumping duty order, or a finding under the Antidumping Act of 1921 shall be distributed on an annual basis under this section to the affected domestic producers for qualifying expenditures. Such distribution shall be known as the ””continued dumping and subsidy offset““.
  (b) Definitions
     As used in this section:
    (1) Affected domestic producer
       The term ””affected domestic producer““ means any manufacturer, producer, farmer, rancher, or worker representative (including associations of such persons) that–
      (A) was a petitioner or interested party in support of the petition with respect to which an antidumping duty order, a finding under the Antidumping Act of 1921, or a countervailing duty order has been entered, and
      (B) remains in operation.
       Companies, businesses, or persons that have ceased the production of the product covered by the order or finding or who have been acquired by a company or business that is related to a company that opposed the investigation shall not be an affected domestic producer.
    (2) Commissioner
       The term ””Commissioner““ means the Commissioner of Customs.
    (3) Commission
       The term ””Commission““ means the United States International Trade Commission.
    (4) Qualifying expenditure
       The term ””qualifying expenditure““ means an expenditure incurred after the issuance of the antidumping duty finding or order or countervailing duty order in any of the following categories:
      (A) Manufacturing facilities.
      (B) Equipment.
      (C) Research and development.
      (D) Personnel training.
      (E) Acquisition of technology.
      (F) Health care benefits to employees paid for by the employer.
      (G) Pension benefits to employees paid for by the employer.
      (H) Environmental equipment, training, or technology.
      (I) Acquisition of raw materials and other inputs.
      (J) Working capital or other funds needed to maintain production.
    (5) Related to
       A company, business, or person shall be considered to be ””related to““ another company, business, or person if–
      (A) the company, business, or person directly or indirectly controls or is controlled by the other company, business, or person,
      (B) a third party directly or indirectly controls both companies, businesses, or persons,
      (C) both companies, businesses, or persons directly or indirectly control a third party and there is reason to believe that the relationship causes the first company, business, or persons to act differently than a nonrelated party.
       For purposes of this paragraph, a party shall be considered to directly or indirectly control another party if the party is legally or operationally in a position to exercise restraint or direction over the other party.
  (c) Distribution procedures
     The Commissioner shall prescribe procedures for distribution of the continued dumping or subsidies offset required by this section. Such distribution shall be made not later than 60 days after the first day of a fiscal year from duties assessed during the preceding fiscal year.
  (d) Parties eligible for distribution of antidumping and countervailing duties assessed
    (1) List of affected domestic producers
       The Commission shall forward to the Commissioner within 60 days after the effective date of this section in the case of orders or findings in effect on January 1, 1999, or thereafter, or in any other case, within 60 days after the date an antidumping or countervailing duty order or finding is issued, a list of petitioners and persons with respect to each order and finding and a list of persons that indicate support of the petition by letter or through questionnaire response. In those cases in which a determination of injury was not required or the Commission“s records do not permit an identification of those in support of a petition, the Commission shall consult with the administering authority to determine the identity of the petitioner and those domestic parties who have entered appearances during administrative reviews conducted by the administering authority under section 1675 of this title.
    (2) Publication of list; certification
       The Commissioner shall publish in the Federal Register at least 30 days before the distribution of a continued dumping and subsidy offset, a notice of intention to distribute the offset and the list of affected domestic producers potentially eligible for the distribution based on the list obtained from the Commission under paragraph (1). The Commissioner shall request a certification from each potentially eligible affected domestic producer–
      (A) that the producer desires to receive a distribution;
      (B) that the producer is eligible to receive the distribution as an affected domestic producer; and
      (C) the qualifying expenditures incurred by the producer since the issuance of the order or finding for which distribution under this section has not previously been made.
    (3) Distribution of funds
       The Commissioner shall distribute all funds (including all interest earned on the funds) from assessed duties received in the preceding fiscal year to affected domestic producers based on the certifications described in paragraph (2). The distributions shall be made on a pro rata basis based on new and remaining qualifying expenditures.
  (e) Special accounts
    (1) Establishments
       Within 14 days after the effective date of this section, with respect to antidumping duty orders and findings and countervailing duty orders notified under subsection (d)(1) of this section, and within 14 days after the date an antidumping duty order or finding or countervailing duty order issued after the effective date takes effect, the Commissioner shall establish in the Treasury of the United States a special account with respect to each such order or finding.
    (2) Deposits into accounts
       The Commissioner shall deposit into the special accounts, all antidumping or countervailing duties (including interest earned on such duties) that are assessed after the effective date of this section under the antidumping order or finding or the countervailing duty order with respect to which the account was established.
    (3) Time and manner of distributions
       Consistent with the requirements of subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the Commissioner shall by regulation prescribe the time and manner in which distribution of the funds in a special account shall be made.
    (4) Termination
       A special account shall terminate after–
      (A) the order or finding with respect to which the account was established has terminated;
      (B) all entries relating to the order or finding are liquidated and duties assessed collected;
      (C) the Commissioner has provided notice and a final opportunity to obtain distribution pursuant to subsection (c) of this section; and
      (D) 90 days has elapsed from the date of the notice described in subparagraph (C).
       Amounts not claimed within 90 days of the date of the notice described in subparagraph (C), shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.
