  (a) Contents of resolutions
    (1) For purposes of this section, the term ””resolution““ means only–
      (A) a joint resolution of the two Houses of the Congress, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: ””That the Congress does not approve the action taken by, or the determination of, the President under section 203 of the Trade Act of 1974 transmitted to the Congress on G7T2XXXK.““, the blank space being filled with the appropriate date; and
      (B) a joint resolution of the two Houses of Congress, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: ””That the Congress does not approve G7T2XXXK transmitted to the Congress on G7T2XXXK.““, with the first blank space being filled in accordance with paragraph (2), and the second blank space being filled with the appropriate date.
    (2) The first blank space referred to in paragraph (1)(B) shall be filled, in the case of a resolution referred to in section 2437(c)(2) of this title, with the phrase ””the report of the President submitted under section G7T2XXXK of the Trade Act of 1974 with respect to G7T2XXXK““ (with the first blank space being filled with ””402(b)““ or ””409(b)““, as appropriate, and the second blank space being filled with the name of the country involved).
  (b) Reference to committees
     All resolutions introduced in the House of Representatives shall be referred to the Committee on Ways and Means and all resolutions introduced in the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on Finance.
  (c) Discharge of committees
    (1) If the committee of either House to which a resolution has been referred has not reported it at the end of 30 days after its introduction, not counting any day which is excluded under section 2194(b) of this title, it is in order to move either to discharge the committee from further consideration of the resolution or to discharge the committee from further consideration of any other resolution introduced with respect to the same matter, except that a motion to discharge–
      (A) may only be made on the second legislative day after the calendar day on which the Member making the motion announces to the House his intention to do so; and
      (B) is not in order after the Committee \1\N has reported a resolution with respect to the same matter.
    (2) A motion to discharge under paragraph (1) may be made only by an individual favoring the resolution, and is highly privileged in the House and privileged in the Senate; and debate thereon shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, the time to be divided in the House equally between those favoring and those opposing the resolution, and to be divided in the Senate equally between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees. An amendment to the motion is not in order, and it is not in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
  (d) Floor consideration in the House
    (1) A motion in the House of Representatives to proceed to the consideration of a resolution shall be highly privileged and not debatable. An amendment to the motion shall not be in order, nor shall it be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
    (2) Debate in the House of Representatives on a resolution shall be limited to not more than 20 hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing the resolution. A motion further to limit debate shall not be debatable. No amendment to, or motion to recommit, the resolution shall be in order. It shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which a resolution is agreed to or disagreed to.
    (3) Motions to postpone, made in the House of Representatives with respect to the consideration of a resolution, and motions to proceed to the consideration of other business, shall be decided without debate.
    (4) All appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the Rules of the House of Representatives to the procedure relating to a resolution shall be decided without debate.
    (5) Except to the extent specifically provided in the preceding provisions of this subsection, consideration of a resolution in the House of Representatives shall be governed by the Rules of the House of Representatives applicable to other resolutions in similar circumstances.
  (e) Floor consideration in the Senate
    (1) A motion in the Senate to proceed to the consideration of a resolution shall be privileged. An amendment to the motion shall not be in order, nor shall it be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
    (2) Debate in the Senate on a resolution, and all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 20 hours, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees.
    (3) Debate in the Senate on any debatable motion or appeal in connection with a resolution shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the resolution, except that in the event the manager of the resolution is in favor of any such motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto, shall be controlled by the minority leader or his designee. Such leaders, or either of them, may, from time under their control on the passage of a resolution, allot additional time to any Senator during the consideration of any debatable motion or appeal.
    (4) A motion in the Senate to further limit debate on a resolution, debatable motion, or appeal is not debatable. No amendment to, or motion to recommit, a resolution is in order in the Senate.
  (f) Procedures in the Senate
    (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the following procedures shall apply in the Senate to a resolution to which this section applies:
      (A)        (i) Except as provided in clause (ii), a resolution that has passed the House of Representatives shall, when received in the Senate, be referred to the Committee on Finance for consideration in accordance with this section.
        (ii) If a resolution to which this section applies was introduced in the Senate before receipt of a resolution that has passed the House of Representatives, the resolution from the House of Representatives shall, when received in the Senate, be placed on the calendar. If this clause applies, the procedures in the Senate with respect to a resolution introduced in the Senate that contains the identical matter as the resolution that passed the House of Representatives shall be the same as if no resolution had been received from the House of Representatives, except that the vote on passage in the Senate shall be on the resolution that passed the House of Representatives.
      (B) If the Senate passes a resolution before receiving from the House of Representatives a joint resolution that contains the identical matter, the joint resolution shall be held at the desk pending receipt of the joint resolution from the House of Representatives. Upon receipt of the joint resolution from the House of Representatives, such joint resolution shall be deemed to be read twice, considered, read the third time, and passed.
    (2) If the texts of joint resolutions described in this section or section 2193(a) of this title, whichever is applicable, concerning any matter are not identical–
      (A) the Senate shall vote passage on the resolution introduced in the Senate, and
      (B) the text of the joint resolution passed by the Senate shall, immediately upon its passage (or, if later, upon receipt of the joint resolution passed by the House), be substituted for the text of the joint resolution passed by the House of Representatives, and such resolution, as amended, shall be returned with a request for a conference between the two Houses.
    (3) Consideration in the Senate of any veto message with respect to a joint resolution described in subsection (a)(2)(B) of this section or section 2193(a) of this title, including consideration of all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to 10 hours, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees.
