  (a) Authority of Secretary to enter into agreements
     The Secretary is authorized on behalf of the United States to enter into an agreement with any State, or with any State agency (referred to in this subpart as ””cooperating States““ and ””cooperating States agencies““ respectively). Under such an agreement, the cooperating State agency (1) as agent of the United States, will receive applications for, and will provide, payments on the basis provided in this part, (2) where appropriate, but in accordance with subsection (f) of this section, will afford adversely affected workers testing, counseling, referral to training and job search programs, and placement services, (3) will make any certifications required under section 2291(c)(2) \1\N of this title, and (4) will otherwise cooperate with the Secretary and with other State and Federal agencies in providing payments and services under this part.
  (b) Amendment, suspension, and termination of agreements
     Each agreement under this subpart shall provide the terms and conditions upon which the agreement may be amended, suspended, or terminated.
  (c) Unemployment insurance
     Each agreement under this subpart shall provide that unemployment insurance otherwise payable to any adversely affected worker will not be denied or reduced for any week by reason of any right to payments under this part.
  (d) Review
     A determination by a cooperating State agency with respect to entitlement to program benefits under an agreement is subject to review in the same manner and to the same extent as determinations under the applicable State law and only in that manner and to that extent.
  (e) Coordination of benefits and assistance
     Any agreement entered into under this section shall provide for the coordination of the administration of the provisions for employment services, training, and supplemental assistance under sections 2295 and 2296 of this title and under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.] upon such terms and conditions as are established by the Secretary in consultation with the States and set forth in such agreement. Any agency of the State jointly administering such provisions under such agreement shall be considered to be a cooperating State agency for purposes of this part.
  (f) Advising and interviewing adversely affected workers
     Each cooperating State agency shall, in carrying out subsection (a)(2) of this section–
    (1) advise each worker who applies for unemployment insurance of the benefits under this part and the procedures and deadlines for applying for such benefits,
    (2) facilitate the early filing of petitions under section 2271 of this title for any workers that the agency considers are likely to be eligible for benefits under this part,
    (3) advise each adversely affected worker to apply for training under section 2296(a) of this title before, or at the same time, the worker applies for trade readjustment allowances under division I of subpart B of this part, and
    (4) as soon as practicable, interview the adversely affected worker regarding suitable training opportunities available to the worker under section 2296 of this title and review such opportunities with the worker.
  (g) Submission of information for coordination of workforce investment activities
     In order to promote the coordination of workforce investment activities in each State with activities carried out under this part, any agreement entered into under this section shall provide that the State shall submit to the Secretary, in such form as the Secretary may require, the description and information described in paragraphs (8) and (14) of section 112(b) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2822(b)].
