   No Federal agency may engage in any standards-related activity that creates unnecessary obstacles to the foreign commerce of the United States, including, but not limited to, standards-related activities that violate any of the following requirements:
  (1) Nondiscriminatory treatment
     Each Federal agency shall ensure, in applying standards-related activities with respect to any imported product, that such product is treated no less favorably than are like domestic or imported products, including, but not limited to, when applying tests or test methods, no less favorable treatment with respect to–
    (A) the acceptance of the product for testing in comparable situations;
    (B) the administration of the tests in comparable situations;
    (C) the fees charged for tests;
    (D) the release of test results to the exporter, importer, or agents;
    (E) the siting of testing facilities and the selection of samples for testing; and
    (F) the treatment of confidential information pertaining to the product.
  (2) Use of international standards
    (A) In general
       Except as provided in subparagraph (B)(ii), each Federal agency, in developing standards, shall take into consideration international standards and shall, if appropriate, base the standards on international standards.
    (B) Application of requirement
       For purposes of this paragraph, the following apply:
      (i) International standards not appropriate
         The reasons for which the basing of a standard on an international standard may not be appropriate include, but are not limited to, the following:
        (I) National security requirements.
        (II) The prevention of deceptive practices.
        (III) The protection of human health or safety, animal or plant life or health, or the environment.
        (IV) Fundamental climatic or other geographical factors.
        (V) Fundamental technological problems.
      (ii) Regional standards
         In developing standards, a Federal agency may, but is not required to, take into consideration any international standard promulgated by an international standards organization the membership of which is described in section 2571(6)(A)(ii) \1\N of this title.
  (3) Performance criteria
     Each Federal agency shall, if appropriate, develop standards based on performance criteria, such as those relating to the intended use of a product and the level of performance that the product must achieve under defined conditions, rather than on design criteria, such as those relating to the physical form of the product or the types of material of which the product is made.
  (4) Access for foreign suppliers
     Each Federal agency shall, with respect to any conformity assessment procedure used by it, permit access for obtaining an assessment of conformity and the mark of the system, if any, to foreign suppliers of a product on the same basis as access is permitted to suppliers of like products, whether of domestic or other foreign origin.
