  (a) In general
    (1) In conducting the annual analysis under section 181(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2241), the Trade Representative shall review the operation and effectiveness of–
      (A) each trade agreement negotiated by reason of this chapter that is in force with respect to the United States; and
      (B) every other trade agreement regarding telecommunications products or services that is in force with respect to the United States.
    (2) In each review conducted under paragraph (1), the Trade Representative shall determine whether any act, policy, or practice of the foreign country that has entered into the agreement described in paragraph (1)–
      (A) is not in compliance with the terms of such agreement, or
      (B) otherwise denies, within the context of the terms of such agreement, to telecommunications products and services of United States firms mutually advantageous market opportunities in that foreign country.
  (b) Review factors
    (1) In conducting reviews under subsection (a) of this section, the Trade Representative shall consider any evidence of actual patterns of trade (including United States exports to a foreign country of telecommunications products and services, including sales and services related to those products) that do not reflect patterns of trade which would reasonably be anticipated to flow from the concessions or commitments of such country based on the international competitive position and export potential of such products and services.
    (2) The Trade Representative shall consult with the United States International Trade Commission with regard to the actual patterns of trade described in paragraph (1).
  (c) Action in response to affirmative determination
    (1) Any affirmative determination made by the Trade Representative under subsection (a)(2) of this section with respect to any act, policy, or practice of a foreign country shall, for purposes of chapter 1 of title III of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2411 et seq.], be treated as an affirmative determination under section 304(a)(1)(A) of such Act [19 U.S.C. 2414(a)(1)(A)] that such act, policy, or practice violates a trade agreement.
    (2) In taking actions under section 301 [19 U.S.C. 2411] by reason of paragraph (1), the Trade Representative shall first take those actions which most directly affect trade in telecommunications products and services with the priority foreign country referred to in paragraph (1), unless the Trade Representative determines that actions against other economic sectors would be more effective in achieving compliance by the foreign country with the trade agreement that is the subject of the affirmative determination made under subsection (a)(2) of this section.
