  (a) In general
    (1) Unless otherwise excluded from eligibility by this chapter, the duty-free treatment provided under this chapter shall apply to any article which is the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary country if–
      (A) that article is imported directly from a beneficiary country into the customs territory of the United States; and
      (B) the sum of–
        (i) the cost or value of the materials produced in a beneficiary country or 2 or more beneficiary countries under this chapter, or a beneficiary country under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act [19 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.] or 2 or more such countries, plus
        (ii) the direct costs of processing operations performed in a beneficiary country or countries (under this chapter or the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act),
           For purposes of determining the percentage referred to in subparagraph (B), the term ””beneficiary country““ includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands. If the cost or value of materials produced in the customs territory of the United States (other than the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico) is included with respect to an article to which this paragraph applies, an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the appraised value of the article at the time it is entered that is attributed to such United States cost or value may be applied toward determining the percentage referred to in subparagraph (B).
       is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of such article at the time it is entered.
    (2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out subsection (a) of this section including, but not limited to, regulations providing that, in order to be eligible for duty-free treatment under this chapter, an article must be wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary country, or must be a new or different article of commerce which has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the beneficiary country; but no article or material of a beneficiary country shall be eligible for such treatment by virtue of having merely undergone–
      (A) simple combining or packaging operations, or
      (B) mere dilution with water or mere dilution with another substance that does not materially alter the characteristics of the article.
    (3) As used in this subsection, the phrase ””direct costs of processing operations““ includes, but is not limited to–
      (A) all actual labor costs involved in the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the specific merchandise, including fringe benefits, on-the-job training and the cost of engineering, supervisory, quality control, and similar personnel; and
      (B) dies, molds, tooling, and depreciation on machinery and equipment which are allocable to the specific merchandise.
         Such phrase does not include costs which are not directly attributable to the merchandise concerned or are not costs of manufacturing the product, such as (i) profit, and (ii) general expense of doing business which are either not allocable to the specific merchandise or are not related to the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the merchandise, such as administrative salaries, casualty and liability insurance, advertising, interest, and salesmen“s salaries, commissions or expenses.
    (4) If the President, pursuant to section 223 of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Expansion Act of 1990, considers that the implementation of revised rules of origin for products of beneficiary countries designated under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.) would be appropriate, the President may include similarly revised rules of origin for products of beneficiary countries designated under this chapter in any suggested legislation transmitted to the Congress that contains such rules of origin for products of beneficiary countries under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act.
  (b) Exceptions to duty-free treatment
     The duty-free treatment provided under this chapter shall not apply to–
    (1) textile and apparel articles which are subject to textile agreements;
    (2) footwear not designated at the time of the effective date of this chapter as eligible for the purpose of the generalized system of preferences under title V of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.];
    (3) tuna, prepared or preserved in any manner, in airtight containers;
    (4) petroleum, or any product derived from petroleum, provided for in headings 2709 and 2710 of the HTS;
    (5) watches and watch parts (including cases, bracelets and straps), of whatever type including, but not limited to, mechanical, quartz digital or quartz analog, if such watches or watch parts contain any material which is the product of any country with respect to which HTS column 2 rates of duty apply;
    (6) articles to which reduced rates of duty apply under subsection (c) of this section;
    (7) sugars, syrups, and molasses classified in subheadings 1701.11.03, 1701.12.02, 1701.99.02, 1702.90.32, 1806.10.42, and 2106.90.12 of the HTS; or
    (8) rum and tafia classified in subheading 2208.40.00 of the HTS.
  (c) Duty reductions for certain goods
    (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the President shall proclaim reductions in the rates of duty on handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves, and leather wearing apparel that–
      (A) are the product of any beneficiary country; and
      (B) were not designated on August 5, 1983, as eligible articles for purposes of the generalized system of preferences under title V of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.].
    (2) The reduction required under paragraph (1) in the rate of duty on any article shall–
      (A) result in a rate that is equal to 80 percent of the rate of duty that applies to the article on December 31, 1991, except that, subject to the limitations in paragraph (3), the reduction may not exceed 2.5 percent ad valorem; and
      (B) be implemented in 5 equal annual stages with the first \1/5\ of the aggregate reduction in the rate of duty being applied to entries, or withdrawals from warehouse for consumption, of the article on or after January 1, 1992.
    (3) The reduction required under this subsection with respect to the rate of duty on any article is in addition to any reduction in the rate of duty on that article that may be proclaimed by the President as being required or appropriate to carry out any trade agreement entered into under the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations; except that if the reduction so proclaimed–
      (A) is less than 1.5 percent ad valorem, the aggregate of such proclaimed reduction and the reduction under this subsection may not exceed 3.5 percent ad valorem, or
      (B) is 1.5 percent ad valorem or greater, the aggregate of such proclaimed reduction and the reduction under this subsection may not exceed the proclaimed reduction plus 1 percent ad valorem.
  (d) Suspension of duty-free treatment
    (1) The President may by proclamation suspend the duty-free treatment provided by this chapter with respect to any eligible article and may proclaim a duty rate for such article if such action is proclaimed under chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.] or section 1862 of this title.
    (2) In any report by the United States International Trade Commission to the President under section 202(f) of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2252(f)] regarding any article for which duty-free treatment has been proclaimed by the President pursuant to this chapter, the Commission shall state whether and to what extent its findings and recommendations apply to such article when imported from beneficiary countries.
    (3) For purposes of section 203 of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2253], the suspension of the duty-free treatment provided by this chapter shall be treated as an increase in duty.
    (4) No proclamation providing solely for a suspension referred to in paragraph (3) of this subsection with respect to any article shall be taken under section 203 of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2253] unless the United States International Trade Commission, in addition to making an affirmative determination with respect to such article under section 202(b) of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2252(b)], determines in the course of its investigation under such section that the serious injury (or threat thereof) substantially caused by imports to the domestic industry producing a like or directly competitive article results from the duty-free treatment provided by this chapter.
    (5)      (A) Any action taken under section 203 of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2253] that is in effect when duty-free treatment is proclaimed under section 3201 of this title shall remain in effect until modified or terminated.
      (B) If any article is subject to any such action at the time duty-free treatment is proclaimed under section 3201 of this title, the President may reduce or terminate the application of such action to the importation of such article from beneficiary countries prior to the otherwise scheduled date on which such reduction or termination would occur pursuant to the criteria and procedures of section 204 of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2254].
  (e) Emergency relief with respect to perishable products
    (1) If a petition is filed with the United States International Trade Commission pursuant to the provisions of section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251] regarding a perishable product and alleging injury from imports from beneficiary countries, then the petition may also be filed with the Secretary of Agriculture with a request that emergency relief be granted pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection with respect to such article.
    (2) Within 14 days after the filing of a petition under paragraph (1) of this subsection–
      (A) if the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe that a perishable product from a beneficiary country is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to the domestic industry producing a perishable product like or directly competitive with the imported product and that emergency action is warranted, he shall advise the President and recommend that the President take emergency action; or
      (B) the Secretary of Agriculture shall publish a notice of his determination not to recommend the imposition of emergency action and so advise the petitioner.
    (3) Within 7 days after the President receives a recommendation from the Secretary of Agriculture to take emergency action pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, he shall issue a proclamation withdrawing the duty-free treatment provided by this chapter or publish a notice of his determination not to take emergency action.
    (4) The emergency action provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection shall cease to apply–
      (A) upon the taking of action under section 203 of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2253],
      (B) on the day a determination by the President not to take action under section 203(b)(2) of such Act becomes final,
      (C) in the event of a report of the United States International Trade Commission containing a negative finding, on the day of the Commission“s report is submitted to the President, or
      (D) whenever the President determines that because of changed circumstances such relief is no longer warranted.
    (5) For purposes of this subsection, the term ””perishable product““ means–
      (A) live plants and fresh cut flowers provided for in chapter 6 of the HTS;
      (B) fresh or chilled vegetables provided for in headings 0701 through 0709 (except subheading 0709.52.00) and heading 0714 of the HTS;
      (C) fresh fruit provided for in subheadings 0804.20 through 0810.90 (except citrons of subheadings 0805.90.00, tamarinds and kiwi fruit of subheading 0810.90.20, and cashew apples, mameyes colorados, sapodillas, soursops and sweetsops of subheading 0810.90.40) of the HTS; or
      (D) concentrated citrus fruit juice provided for in subheadings 2009.11.00, 2009.19.40, 2009.20.40, 2009.30.20, and 2009.30.60 of the HTS.
  (f) Fees under section 624 of title 7
     No proclamation issued pursuant to this chapter shall affect fees imposed pursuant to section 624 of title 7.
  (g) Tariff-rate quotas
     No quantity of an agricultural product subject to a tariff-rate quota that exceeds the in-quota quantity shall be eligible for duty-free treatment under this chapter.
