  (a) Findings
     The Congress makes the following findings:
    (1) Trade in motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts is one of the most restricted areas of trade between the United States and Mexico.
    (2) The elimination of Mexico“s restrictive barriers to trade in motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts over a 10-year period under the Agreement should increase substantially United States exports of such products to Mexico.
    (3) The Department of Commerce estimates that the Agreement provides the opportunity to increase United States exports of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts by $1,000,000,000 during the first year of the Agreement“s implementation with the potential for additional increases over the 10-year transition period.
    (4) The United States automotive industry has estimated that United States exports of motor vehicles to Mexico should increase to more than 60,000 units during the first year of the Agreement“s implementation, which is substantially above the current level of 4,000 units.
  (b) Trade Representative report
     No later than July 1, 1995, and annually thereafter through 1999, the Trade Representative shall submit a report to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives on how effective the provisions of the Agreement are with respect to increasing United States exports of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts to Mexico. Each report shall identify and determine the following:
    (1) The patterns of trade in motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts between the United States and Mexico during the preceding 12-month period.
    (2) The level of tariff and nontariff barriers that were in force during the preceding 12-month period.
    (3) The amount by which United States exports of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts to Mexico have increased from the preceding 12-month period as a result of the elimination of Mexican tariff and nontariff barriers under the Agreement.
    (4) Whether any such increase in United States exports meets the levels of new export opportunities anticipated under the Agreement.
    (5) If the anticipated levels of new United States export opportunities are not reached, what actions the Trade Representative is prepared to take to realize the benefits anticipated under the Agreement, including possible initiation of additional negotiations with Mexico for the purpose of seeking modifications of the Agreement.
