  (a) Action by United States International Trade Commission
    (1) Advisory report
       If a dispute settlement panel finds in an interim report under Article 15 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding, or the Appellate Body finds in a report under Article 17 of that Understanding, that an action by the International Trade Commission in connection with a particular proceeding is not in conformity with the obligations of the United States under the Antidumping Agreement, the Safeguards Agreement, or the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Trade Representative may request the Commission to issue an advisory report on whether title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.] or title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.], as the case may be, permits the Commission to take steps in connection with the particular proceeding that would render its action not inconsistent with the findings of the panel or the Appellate Body concerning those obligations. The Trade Representative shall notify the congressional committees of such request.
    (2) Time limits for report
       The Commission shall transmit its report under paragraph (1) to the Trade Representative–
      (A) in the case of an interim report described in paragraph (1), within 30 calendar days after the Trade Representative requests the report; and
      (B) in the case of a report of the Appellate Body, within 21 calendar days after the Trade Representative requests the report.
    (3) Consultations on request for Commission determination
       If a majority of the Commissioners issues an affirmative report under paragraph (1), the Trade Representative shall consult with the congressional committees concerning the matter.
    (4) Commission determination
       Notwithstanding any provision of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1202 et seq.] or title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.], if a majority of the Commissioners issues an affirmative report under paragraph (1), the Commission, upon the written request of the Trade Representative, shall issue a determination in connection with the particular proceeding that would render the Commission“s action described in paragraph (1) not inconsistent with the findings of the panel or Appellate Body. The Commission shall issue its determination not later than 120 days after the request from the Trade Representative is made.
    (5) Consultations on implementation of Commission determination
       The Trade Representative shall consult with the congressional committees before the Commission“s determination under paragraph (4) is implemented.
    (6) Revocation of order
       If, by virtue of the Commission“s determination under paragraph (4), an antidumping or countervailing duty order with respect to some or all of the imports that are subject to the action of the Commission described in paragraph (1) is no longer supported by an affirmative Commission determination under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.] or this subsection, the Trade Representative may, after consulting with the congressional committees under paragraph (5), direct the administering authority to revoke the antidumping or countervailing duty order in whole or in part.
  (b) Action by administering authority
    (1) Consultations with administering authority and congressional committees
       Promptly after a report by a dispute settlement panel or the Appellate Body is issued that contains findings that an action by the administering authority in a proceeding under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.] is not in conformity with the obligations of the United States under the Antidumping Agreement or the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Trade Representative shall consult with the administering authority and the congressional committees on the matter.
    (2) Determination by administering authority
       Notwithstanding any provision of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1202 et seq.], the administering authority shall, within 180 days after receipt of a written request from the Trade Representative, issue a determination in connection with the particular proceeding that would render the administering authority“s action described in paragraph (1) not inconsistent with the findings of the panel or the Appellate Body.
    (3) Consultations before implementation
       Before the administering authority implements any determination under paragraph (2), the Trade Representative shall consult with the administering authority and the congressional committees with respect to such determination.
    (4) Implementation of determination
       The Trade Representative may, after consulting with the administering authority and the congressional committees under paragraph (3), direct the administering authority to implement, in whole or in part, the determination made under paragraph (2).
  (c) Effects of determinations; notice of implementation
    (1) Effects of determinations
       Determinations concerning title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.] that are implemented under this section shall apply with respect to unliquidated entries of the subject merchandise (as defined in section 771 of that Act [19 U.S.C. 1677]) that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after–
      (A) in the case of a determination by the Commission under subsection (a)(4) of this section, the date on which the Trade Representative directs the administering authority under subsection (a)(6) of this section to revoke an order pursuant to that determination, and
      (B) in the case of a determination by the administering authority under subsection (b)(2) of this section, the date on which the Trade Representative directs the administering authority under subsection (b)(4) of this section to implement that determination.
    (2) Notice of implementation
      (A) The administering authority shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the implementation of any determination made under this section with respect to title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.].
      (B) The Trade Representative shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the implementation of any determination made under this section with respect to title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.].
  (d) Opportunity for comment by interested parties
     Prior to issuing a determination under this section, the administering authority or the Commission, as the case may be, shall provide interested parties with an opportunity to submit written comments and, in appropriate cases, may hold a hearing, with respect to the determination.
