   For purposes of this chapter, the terms ””sub-Saharan Africa““, ””sub-Saharan African country““, ””country in sub-Saharan Africa““, and ””countries in sub-Saharan Africa““ refer to the following or any successor political entities:
   Republic of Angola (Angola).
   Republic of Benin (Benin).
   Republic of Botswana (Botswana).
   Burkina Faso (Burkina).
   Republic of Burundi (Burundi).
   Republic of Cameroon (Cameroon).
   Republic of Cape Verde (Cape Verde).
   Central African Republic.
   Republic of Chad (Chad).
   Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros (Comoros).
   Democratic Republic of Congo.
   Republic of the Congo (Congo).
   Republic of Co^te d“Ivoire (Co^te d“Ivoire).
   Republic of Djibouti (Djibouti).
   Republic of Equatorial Guinea (Equatorial Guinea).
   State of Eritrea (Eritrea).
   Ethiopia.
   Gabonese Republic (Gabon).
   Republic of the Gambia (Gambia).
   Republic of Ghana (Ghana).
   Republic of Guinea (Guinea).
   Republic of Guinea-Bissau (Guinea-Bissau).
   Republic of Kenya (Kenya).
   Kingdom of Lesotho (Lesotho).
   Republic of Liberia (Liberia).
   Republic of Madagascar (Madagascar).
   Republic of Malawi (Malawi).
   Republic of Mali (Mali).
   Islamic Republic of Mauritania (Mauritania).
   Republic of Mauritius (Mauritius).
   Republic of Mozambique (Mozambique).
   Republic of Namibia (Namibia).
   Republic of Niger (Niger).
   Federal Republic of Nigeria (Nigeria).
   Republic of Rwanda (Rwanda).
   Democratic Republic of Sao Tome΄ and Principe (Sao Tome΄ and Principe).
   Republic of Senegal (Senegal).
   Republic of Seychelles (Seychelles).
   Republic of Sierra Leone (Sierra Leone).
   Somalia.
   Republic of South Africa (South Africa).
   Republic of Sudan (Sudan).
   Kingdom of Swaziland (Swaziland).
   United Republic of Tanzania (Tanzania).
   Republic of Togo (Togo).
   Republic of Uganda (Uganda).
   Republic of Zambia (Zambia).
   Republic of Zimbabwe (Zimbabwe).
