   In this chapter:
  (1) Appropriate congressional committees
     The term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
  (2) Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
     An importation or exportation of rough diamonds is ””controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme““ if it is an importation from the territory of a Participant or exportation to the territory of a Participant of rough diamonds that is–
    (A) carried out in accordance with the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, as set forth in regulations promulgated by the President; or
    (B) controlled under a system determined by the President to meet substantially the standards, practices, and procedures of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
  (3) Exporting authority
     The term ””exporting authority““ means 1 or more entities designated by a Participant from whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being exported as having the authority to validate the Kimberley Process Certificate.
  (4) Importing authority
     The term ””importing authority““ means 1 or more entities designated by a Participant into whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is imported as having the authority to enforce the laws and regulations of the Participant regulating imports, including the verification of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment.
  (5) Kimberley Process Certificate
     The term ””Kimberley Process Certificate““ means a forgery resistant document of a Participant that demonstrates that an importation or exportation of rough diamonds has been controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and contains the minimum elements set forth in Annex I to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
  (6) Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
     The term ””Kimberley Process Certification Scheme““ means those standards, practices, and procedures of the international certification scheme for rough diamonds presented in the document entitled ””Kimberley Process Certification Scheme““ referred to in the Interlaken Declaration on the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme for Rough Diamonds of November 5, 2002.
  (7) Participant
     The term ””Participant““ means a state, customs territory, or regional economic integration organization identified by the Secretary of State.
  (8) Person
     The term ””person““ means an individual or entity.
  (9) Rough diamond
     The term ””rough diamond““ means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
  (10) United States
     The term ””United States““, when used in the geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
  (11) United States person
     The term ””United States person““ means–
    (A) any United States citizen or any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States;
    (B) any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); and
    (C) any person in the United States.
