  (a) If there is a collective-bargaining agreement in effect, no party to such agreement shall terminate or modify such agreement unless the party desiring such termination or modification serves written notice upon the other party to the agreement of the proposed termination or modification not less than 90 days prior to the expiration date thereof, or not less than 90 days prior to the time it is proposed to make such termination or modification. The party serving such notice shall notify the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service of the existence of a dispute within 45 days of such notice, if no agreement has been reached by that time.
  (b) If the parties fail to reach agreement or to adopt a procedure providing for a binding resolution of a dispute by the expiration date of the agreement in effect, or the date of the proposed termination or modification, the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall direct the establishment of a factfinding panel consisting of 3 persons. For this purpose, he shall submit to the parties a list of not less than 15 names, from which list each party, within 10 days, shall select 1 person. The 2 so selected shall then choose from the list a third person who shall serve as chairman of the factfinding panel. If either of the parties fails to select a person or if the 2 members are unable to agree on the third person within 3 days, the selection shall be made by the Director. The factfinding panel shall issue after due investigation a report of its findings, with or without recommendations, to the parties no later than 45 days from the date the list of names is submitted.
  (c)    (1) If no agreement is reached within 90 days after the expiration or termination of the agreement or the date on which the agreement became subject to modification under subsection (a) of this section, or if the parties decide upon arbitration but do not agree upon the procedures therefor, an arbitration board shall be established consisting of 3 members, not members of the factfinding panel, 1 of whom shall be selected by the Postal Service, 1 by the bargaining representative of the employees, and the third by the 2 thus selected. If either of the parties fails to select a member, or if the members chosen by the parties fail to agree on the third person within 5 days after their first meeting, the selection shall be made by the Director. If the parties do not agree on the framing of the issues to be submitted, the factfinding panel shall frame the issues and submit them to the arbitration board.
    (2) The arbitration board shall give the parties a full and fair hearing, including an opportunity to present evidence in support of their claims, and an opportunity to present their case in person, by counsel or by other representative as they may elect. Decisions of the arbitration board shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties. The arbitration board shall render its decision within 45 days after its appointment.
    (3) Costs of the arbitration board and factfinding panel shall be shared equally by the Postal Service and the bargaining representative.
  (d) In the case of a bargaining unit whose recognized collective-bargaining representative does not have an agreement with the Postal Service, if the parties fail to reach agreement within 90 days of the commencement of collective bargaining, a factfinding panel will be established in accordance with the terms of subsection (b) of this section, unless the parties have previously agreed to another procedure for a binding resolution of their differences. If the parties fail to reach agreement within 180 days of the commencement of collective bargaining, and if they have not agreed to another procedure for binding resolution, an arbitration board shall be established to provide conclusive and binding arbitration in accordance with the terms of subsection (c) of this section.
