  (a) The Chairman of the Postal Rate Commission shall be the principal executive officer of the Commission. The Chairman shall exercise or direct the exercise of all the executive and administrative functions of the Commission, including functions of the Commission with respect to (1) the appointment of personnel employed under the Commission, except that the appointment of heads of major administrative units under the Commission shall require the approval of a majority of the members of the Commission, (2) the supervision of the personnel employed under the Commission and the distribution of business among them and among the Commissioners, and (3) the use and expenditure of funds.
  (b) In carrying out any of his functions under this section, the Chairman shall be governed by the general policies of the Commission.
  (c) The Chairman may obtain such facilities and supplies as may be necessary to permit the Commission to carry out its functions. Any officer or employee appointed under this section shall be paid at rates of compensation and shall be entitled to programs offering employee benefits established under chapter 10 or chapter 12 of this title, as appropriate.
  (d)    (1) The Commission shall periodically prepare and submit to the Postal Service a budget of the Commission“s expenses, including, but not limited to, expenses for facilities, supplies, compensation, and employee benefits. The budget shall be considered approved–
      (A) as submitted if the Governors fail to act in accordance with subparagraph (B) of this paragraph; or
      (B) as adjusted if the Governors holding office, by unanimous written decision, adjust the total amount of money requested in the budget.
         Subparagraph (B) shall not be construed to authorize the Governors to adjust any item included within the budget.
    (2) Expenses incurred under any budget approved under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be paid out of the Postal Service fund established under section 2003 of this title.
  (e) The provisions of section 410 and chapter 10 of this title shall apply to the Commission, as appropriate.
