  (a) T4In GeneralK.–The Federal Railroad Administration is an administration in the Department of Transportation.
  (b) T4SafetyK.–To carry out all railroad safety laws of the United States, the Administration is divided on a geographical basis into at least 8 safety offices. The Secretary of Transportation is responsible for all acts taken under those laws and for ensuring that the laws are uniformly administered and enforced among the safety offices.
  (c) T4Safety as Highest PriorityK.–In carrying out its duties, the Administration shall consider the assignment and maintenance of safety as the highest priority, recognizing the clear intent, encouragement, and dedication of Congress to the furtherance of the highest degree of safety in railroad transportation.
  (d) T4AdministratorK.–The head of the Administration shall be the Administrator who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall be an individual with professional experience in railroad safety, hazardous materials safety, or other transportation safety. The Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation.
  (e) T4Deputy AdministratorK.–The Administration shall have a Deputy Administrator who shall be appointed by the Secretary. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out duties and powers prescribed by the Administrator.
  (f) T4Chief Safety OfficerK.–The Administration shall have an Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety appointed in the career service by the Secretary. The Associate Administrator shall be the Chief Safety Officer of the Administration. The Associate Administrator shall carry out the duties and powers prescribed by the Administrator.
  (g) T4Duties and Powers of the AdministratorK.–The Administrator shall carry out–
    (1) duties and powers related to railroad safety vested in the Secretary by section 20134(c) and chapters 203 through 211 of this title, and by chapter 213 of this title for carrying out chapters 203 through 211;
    (2) the duties and powers related to railroad policy and development under subsection (j); and
    (3) other duties and powers prescribed by the Secretary.
  (h) T4LimitationK.–A duty or power specified in subsection (g)(1) may be transferred to another part of the Department of Transportation or another Federal Government entity only when specifically provided by law. A decision of the Administrator in carrying out the duties or powers of the Administration and involving notice and hearing required by law is administratively final.
  (i) T4AuthoritiesK.–Subject to the provisions of subtitle I of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41, the Secretary of Transportation may make, enter into, and perform such contracts, grants, leases, cooperative agreements, and other similar transactions with Federal or other public agencies (including State and local governments) and private organizations and persons, and make such payments, by way of advance or reimbursement, as the Secretary may determine to be necessary or appropriate to carry out functions at the Administration. The authority of the Secretary granted by this subsection shall be carried out by the Administrator. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no authority to enter into contracts or to make payments under this subsection shall be effective, except as provided for in appropriations Acts.
  (j) T4Additional Duties of the AdministratorK.–The Administrator shall–
    (1) provide assistance to States in developing State rail plans prepared under chapter 227 and review all State rail plans submitted under that section; \1\N
    (2) develop a long-range national rail plan that is consistent with approved State rail plans and the rail needs of the Nation, as determined by the Secretary in order to promote an integrated, cohesive, efficient, and optimized national rail system for the movement of goods and people;
    (3) develop a preliminary national rail plan within a year after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008;
    (4) develop and enhance partnerships with the freight and passenger railroad industry, States, and the public concerning rail development;
    (5) support rail intermodal development and high-speed rail development, including high speed rail planning;
    (6) ensure that programs and initiatives developed under this section benefit the public and work toward achieving regional and national transportation goals; and
    (7) facilitate and coordinate efforts to assist freight and passenger rail carriers, transit agencies and authorities, municipalities, and States in passenger-freight service integration on shared rights of way by providing neutral assistance at the joint request of affected rail service providers and infrastructure owners relating to operations and capacity analysis, capital requirements, operating costs, and other research and planning related to corridors shared by passenger or commuter rail service and freight rail operations.
  (k) T4Performance Goals and Reports.–
    (1) T4Performance goalsK.–In conjunction with the objectives established and activities undertaken under subsection (j) of this section, the Administrator shall develop a schedule for achieving specific, measurable performance goals.
    (2) T4Resource needsK.–The strategy and annual plans shall include estimates of the funds and staff resources needed to accomplish each goal and the additional duties required under subsection (j).
    (3) T4Submission with president“s budgetK.–Beginning with fiscal year 2010 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, at the same time as the President“s budget submission, the Administration“s performance goals and schedule developed under paragraph (1), including an assessment of the progress of the Administration toward achieving its performance goals.
