  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–There is established in the Department of Transportation a Bureau of Transportation Statistics.
  (b) T4Director.–
    (1) T4AppointmentK.–The Bureau shall be headed by a Director who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) T4QualificationsK.–The Director shall be appointed from among individuals who are qualified to serve as the Director by virtue of their training and experience in the compilation and analysis of transportation statistics.
    (3) T4ReportingK.–The Director shall report directly to the Secretary.
    (4) T4TermK.–The term of the Director shall be 4 years. The term of the first Director to be appointed shall begin on the 180th day after the date of the enactment of this section.
  (c) T4ResponsibilitiesK.–The Director of the Bureau shall be responsible for carrying out the following duties:
    (1) T4Compiling transportation statisticsK.–Compiling, analyzing, and publishing a comprehensive set of transportation statistics to provide timely summaries and totals (including industrywide aggregates and multiyear averages) of transportation-related information. Such statistics shall be suitable for conducting cost-benefit studies (including comparisons among individual transportation modes and intermodal transport systems) and shall include information on–
      (A) productivity in various parts of the transportation sector;
      (B) traffic flows;
      (C) travel times;
      (D) vehicle weights;
      (E) variables influencing traveling behavior, including choice of transportation mode;
      (F) travel costs of intracity commuting and intercity trips;
      (G) availability of mass transit and the number of passengers served by each mass transit authority;
      (H) frequency of vehicle and transportation facility repairs and other interruptions of transportation service;
      (I) accidents;
      (J) collateral damage to the human and natural environment; and
      (K) the condition of the transportation system.
    (2) T4Implementing long-term data collection programK.–Establishing and implementing, in cooperation with the modal administrators, the States, and other Federal officials a comprehensive, long-term program for the collection and analysis of data relating to the performance of the national transportation system. Such program shall–
      (A) be coordinated with efforts to develop performance indicators for the national transportation system undertaken pursuant to section 307(b)(3) of title 23, United States Code;
      (B) ensure that data is collected under this subsection in a manner which will maximize the ability to compare data from different regions and for different time periods; and
      (C) ensure that data collected under this subsection is controlled for accuracy and disseminated to the States and other interested parties.
    (3) T4Issuing guidelinesK.–Issuing guidelines for the collection of information by the Department of Transportation required for statistics to be compiled under paragraph (1) in order to ensure that such information is accurate, reliable, relevant, and in a form that permits systematic analysis.
    (4) T4Coordinating collection of informationK.–Coordinating the collection of information by the Department of Transportation required for statistics to be compiled under paragraph (1) with related information-gathering activities conducted by other Federal departments and agencies and collecting appropriate data not elsewhere gathered.
    (5) T4Making statistics accessibleK.–Making the statistics published under this subsection readily accessible.
    (6) T4Identifying information needsK.–Identifying information that is needed under paragraph (1) but which is not being collected, reviewing such needs at least annually with the Advisory Council on Transportation Statistics, and making recommendations to appropriate Department of Transportation research officials concerning extramural and intramural research programs to provide such information.
  (d) T4Limitations on Statutory ConstructionK.–Nothing in this section shall be construed–
    (1) to authorize the Bureau to require any other department or agency to collect data; or
    (2) to reduce the authority of any other officer of the Department of Transportation to collect and disseminate data independently.
  (e) T4Prohibition on Certain DisclosuresK.–Information compiled by the Bureau shall not be disclosed publicly in a manner that would reveal the personal identity of any individual, consistent with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or to reveal trade secrets or allow commercial or financial information provided by any person to be identified with such person.
  (f) T4Transportation Statistics Annual ReportK.–On or before January 1, 1994, and annually thereafter, the Director shall transmit to the President and Congress a Transportation Statistics Annual Report which shall include information on items referred to in subsection (c)(1), documentation of methods used to obtain and ensure the quality of the statistics presented in the report, and recommendations for improving transportation statistical information.
  (g) T4Performance of Functions of Director Pending ConfirmationK.–An individual who, on the date of the enactment of this section, is performing any function required by this section to be performed by the Director may continue to perform such function until such function is undertaken by the Director.
