  (a) T4In GeneralK.–There is established in the Department of Homeland Security a board to be known as the ””Transportation Security Oversight Board““.
  (b) T4Membership.–
    (1) T4Number and appointmentK.–The Board shall be composed of 7 members as follows:
      (A) The Secretary of Homeland Security, or the Secretary“s designee.
      (B) The Secretary of Transportation, or the Secretary“s designee.
      (C) The Attorney General, or the Attorney General“s designee.
      (D) The Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary“s designee.
      (E) The Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary“s designee.
      (F) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, or the Director“s designee.
      (G) One member appointed by the President to represent the National Security Council.
    (2) T4ChairpersonK.–The Chairperson of the Board shall be the Secretary of Homeland Security.
  (c) T4DutiesK.–The Board shall–
    (1) review and ratify or disapprove any regulation or security directive issued by the Under Secretary of Transportation for security \1\N under section 114(T3lK)(2) within 30 days after the date of issuance of such regulation or directive;
    (2) facilitate the coordination of intelligence, security, and law enforcement activities affecting transportation;
    (3) facilitate the sharing of intelligence, security, and law enforcement information affecting transportation among Federal agencies and with carriers and other transportation providers as appropriate;
    (4) explore the technical feasibility of developing a common database of individuals who may pose a threat to transportation or national security;
    (5) review plans for transportation security;
    (6) make recommendations to the Under Secretary regarding matters reviewed under paragraph (5).
  (d) T4Quarterly MeetingsK.–The Board shall meet at least quarterly.
  (e) T4Consideration of Security InformationK.–A majority of the Board may vote to close a meeting of the Board to the public, except that meetings shall be closed to the public whenever classified, sensitive security information, or information protected in accordance with section 40119(b), will be discussed.
