  (a) American Samoa
    (1) With the approval of the Attorney General of the United States or his designee, law enforcement officers of the Government of American Samoa are authorized to–
      (A) execute and serve warrants, subpoenas, and summons issued under the authority of the United States;
      (B) make arrests without warrant; and
      (C) make seizures of property to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951–970), and any other applicable narcotics laws of the United States.
    (2) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services of the United States, as appropriate, are authorized to and, upon request of the Government of American Samoa, shall–
      (A) train law enforcement officers and other personnel of the Government of American Samoa, and
      (B) provide by purchase or lease law enforcement equipment and technical assistance to the Government of American Samoa to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other Federal or territorial drug or other substance abuse laws.
    (3) There are authorized to be appropriated $350,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of American Samoa to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, to remain available until expended.
    (4) The Secretary of the Treasury in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior shall provide the Government of American Samoa with a vessel to be used in the enforcement of narcotics and other laws. There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for this purpose.
  (b) Guam
    (1) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services of the United States may provide and, upon request of the Government of Guam, shall provide appropriate training, technical assistance and equipment to the Government of Guam to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other Federal or territorial drug or other substance abuse law.
    (2) There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of Guam to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services, to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, to remain available until expended.
    (3) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Government of Guam $500,000 for grants to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General for drug abuse law enforcement equipment.
  (c) Northern Mariana Islands
    (1) With the approval of the Attorney General of the United States or his designee, law enforcement officers of the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands are authorized to–
      (A) execute and serve warrants, subpoenas, and summons issued under the authority of the United States;
      (B) make arrests without warrant; and
      (C) make seizures of property to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951–970), and any other applicable narcotics laws of the United States.
    (2) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services of the United States, as appropriate, are authorized to and, upon request of the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands, shall–
      (A) train law enforcement officers and other personnel of the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands, and
      (B) provide, by purchase or lease, law enforcement equipment and technical assistance to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other Federal or commonwealth drug or other substance abuse law.
    (3) There are authorized to be appropriated $125,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, to remain available until expended.
    (4) Federal personnel and equipment assigned to Guam pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall also be available to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title in the Northern Mariana Islands.
  (d) Puerto Rico
    (1) There are authorized to be appropriated for grants to the Government of Puerto Rico $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1989 and $2,000,000 annually thereafter for grants to the Government of Puerto Rico to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Executive Director of the White House Task Force on Puerto Rico in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services, to remain available until expended.
    (2) The United States Customs Service should station an aerostat in Puerto Rico.
    (3) Equipment provided to the Government of Puerto Rico pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be made available upon request to the Federal agencies involved in drug interdiction in Puerto Rico.
    (4)      (A) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services of the United States may provide and, upon request of the Government of Puerto Rico, shall provide appropriate training, technical assistance and equipment to the Government of Puerto Rico to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other Federal or commonwealth drug or other substance abuse law.
      (B) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subparagraph (A). Funds appropriated under this subparagraph shall remain available until expended.
  (e) Virgin Islands
    (1) There are authorized to be appropriated for grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1990 and annually thereafter to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services, to remain available until expended.
    (2) The United States Coast Guard shall station a patrol vessel in St. Croix, Virgin Islands.
    (3)      (A) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services of the United States may provide and, upon request of the Government of the Virgin Islands, shall provide appropriate training, technical assistance and equipment to the Government of the United States Virgin Islands to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other Federal or territorial drug or other substance abuse law.
      (B) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subparagraph (A). Funds appropriated under this subparagraph shall remain available until expended.
    (4) To assist in the prosecution of the violation of the narcotics laws of the United States, the Attorney General of the United States shall assign the necessary personnel to serve in the office of the United States Attorney for the Virgin Islands appointed pursuant to section 1617 of this title.
    (5) Effective fiscal year 1989, there are authorized to be appropriated for a grant to the Government of the Virgin Islands $2,500,000 to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services for a substance abuse facility.
  (f) Palau
    (1) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services are authorized to and, upon request of the Government of Palau, shall provide appropriate training, technical assistance, and equipment to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other applicable Federal or insular drug or other substance abuse laws.
    (2) There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of Palau to be expended in accordance with a plan to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education, State, and Health and Human Services to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title.
    (3) To the extent not prohibited under the Constitution of Palau, upon written request of the President of Palau, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secret Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Customs Service are authorized to investigate any United States criminal laws which are applicable in Palau in cooperation with law enforcement agencies of Palau.
