  (a) T4In GeneralK.–Each State rail plan shall, at a minimum, contain the following:
    (1) An inventory of the existing overall rail transportation system and rail services and facilities within the State and an analysis of the role of rail transportation within the State“s surface transportation system.
    (2) A review of all rail lines within the State, including proposed high-speed rail corridors and significant rail line segments not currently in service.
    (3) A statement of the State“s passenger rail service objectives, including minimum service levels, for rail transportation routes in the State.
    (4) A general analysis of rail“s transportation, economic, and environmental impacts in the State, including congestion mitigation, trade and economic development, air quality, land-use, energy-use, and community impacts.
    (5) A long-range rail investment program for current and future freight and passenger infrastructure in the State that meets the requirements of subsection (b).
    (6) A statement of public financing issues for rail projects and service in the State, including a list of current and prospective public capital and operating funding resources, public subsidies, State taxation, and other financial policies relating to rail infrastructure development.
    (7) An identification of rail infrastructure issues within the State that reflects consultation with all relevant stakeholders.
    (8) A review of major passenger and freight intermodal rail connections and facilities within the State, including seaports, and prioritized options to maximize service integration and efficiency between rail and other modes of transportation within the State.
    (9) A review of publicly funded projects within the State to improve rail transportation safety and security, including all major projects funded under section 130 of title 23.
    (10) A performance evaluation of passenger rail services operating in the State, including possible improvements in those services, and a description of strategies to achieve those improvements.
    (11) A compilation of studies and reports on high-speed rail corridor development within the State not included in a previous plan under this subchapter,\1\N and a plan for funding any recommended development of such corridors in the State.
    (12) A statement that the State is in compliance with the requirements of section 22102.
  (b) T4Long-Range Service and Investment Program.–
    (1) T4Program contentK.–A long-range rail investment program included in a State rail plan under subsection (a)(5) shall, at a minimum, include the following matters:
      (A) A list of any rail capital projects expected to be undertaken or supported in whole or in part by the State.
      (B) A detailed funding plan for those projects.
    (2) T4Project list contentK.–The list of rail capital projects shall contain–
      (A) a description of the anticipated public and private benefits of each such project; and
      (B) a statement of the correlation between–
        (i) public funding contributions for the projects; and
        (ii) the public benefits.
    (3) T4Considerations for project listK.–In preparing the list of freight and intercity passenger rail capital projects, a State rail transportation authority should take into consideration the following matters:
      (A) Contributions made by non-Federal and non-State sources through user fees, matching funds, or other private capital involvement.
      (B) Rail capacity and congestion effects.
      (C) Effects on highway, aviation, and maritime capacity, congestion, or safety.
      (D) Regional balance.
      (E) Environmental impact.
      (F) Economic and employment impacts.
      (G) Projected ridership and other service measures for passenger rail projects.
