   In this part–
  (1) ””auto-ferry transportation““ means intercity rail passenger transportation–
    (A) of automobiles or recreational vehicles and their occupants; and
    (B) when space is available, of used unoccupied vehicles.
  (2) ””avoidable loss““ means the avoidable costs of providing rail passenger transportation, less revenue attributable to the transportation, as determined by the Interstate Commerce Commission under section 553 of title 5.
  (3) ””basic system““ means the system of intercity rail passenger transportation designated by the Secretary of Transportation under section 4 of the Amtrak Improvement Act of 1978 and approved by Congress, and transportation required to be provided under section 24705(a) of this title and section 4(g) of the Act, including changes in the system or transportation that Amtrak makes using the route and service criteria.
  (4) ””commuter authority““ means a State, local, or regional entity established to provide, or make a contract providing for, commuter rail passenger transportation.
  (5) ””commuter rail passenger transportation““ means short-haul rail passenger transportation in metropolitan and suburban areas usually having reduced fare, multiple-ride, and commuter tickets and morning and evening peak period operations.
  (6) ””intercity rail passenger transportation““ means rail passenger transportation, except commuter rail passenger transportation.
  (7) ””Northeast Corridor““ means Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island.
  (8) ””rail carrier““ means a person providing rail transportation for compensation.
  (9) ””rate““ means a rate, fare, or charge for rail transportation.
  (10) ””regional transportation authority““ means an entity established to provide passenger transportation in a region.
  (11) ””route and service criteria““ means the criteria and procedures for making route and service decisions established under section 404(c)(1)–(3)(A) of the Rail Passenger Service Act.
