  (a) T4Route ReviewsK.–Amtrak shall review annually each route in the basic system to decide if the route meets the long distance or short distance route criterion, as appropriate, under section 24705(a)(1) of this title, adjusted to reflect constant 1979 dollars. The review shall include an evaluation of the potential market demand for, and the cost of providing transportation on, a part of the route and an alternative route. Amtrak shall submit the results of the review to the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Secretary of Transportation. If Amtrak decides that a route will not meet the criterion under section 24705(a)(1), as adjusted, Amtrak shall modify or discontinue rail passenger transportation operations on the route so that it will meet the criterion.
  (b) T4Financial Requirements and Performance StandardsK.–Not later than 30 days after the beginning of each fiscal year, Amtrak shall evaluate the financial requirements for operating the basic system and the progress in achieving the system-wide performance standards prescribed under this part during the fiscal year. If Amtrak decides amounts available for the fiscal year are not enough to meet estimated operating costs, or if Amtrak estimates it cannot meet the performance standards, Amtrak shall act to reduce costs and improve performance. Action under this subsection shall be designed to continue the maximum level of transportation practicable, including–
    (1) changing the frequency of transportation;
    (2) increasing fares;
    (3) reducing the cost of sleeper car and dining car service on certain routes;
    (4) increasing the passenger capacity of cars used on certain routes; and
    (5) modifying the route system or discontinuing transportation over routes, considering short term avoidable loss and the number of passengers served on those routes.
  (c) T4Cost Limitations and Revenue GoalsK.–Annual costs of Amtrak may not be more than amounts, including grants made under section 24104 of this title, contributions of States, regional and local authorities, and other persons, and revenues, available to Amtrak in the fiscal year. Amtrak annually shall set a goal of recovering an amount so that its revenues, including contributions, is at least 61 percent of its costs, except capital costs.
  (d) T4Conductor ReportsK.–To assess the operational performance of trains, the President of Amtrak may direct the conductor on any train of Amtrak to report to Amtrak any inadequacy of train operation. The report shall be signed by the conductor, contain sufficient information to locate equipment or personnel failures, and be submitted promptly to Amtrak.
