  (a) T4Notice of DiscontinuanceK.–(1) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, at least 90 days before a discontinuance under section 24704 or 24707(a) or (b) of this title, Amtrak shall give notice of the discontinuance in the way Amtrak decides will give a State, a regional or local authority, or another person the opportunity to agree to share the cost of any part of the train, route, or service to be discontinued.
  (2) Notice of the discontinuance under section 24704 or 24707(a) or (b) of this title shall be posted in all stations served by the train to be discontinued at least 14 days before the discontinuance.
  (b) T4Discontinuance for Lack of AppropriationsK.–(1) Amtrak may discontinue service under section 24704 or 24707(a) or (b) of this title during–
    (A) the first month of a fiscal year if the authorization of appropriations and the appropriations for Amtrak are not enacted at least 90 days before the beginning of the fiscal year; and
    (B) the 30 days following enactment of an appropriation for Amtrak or a rescission of an appropriation.
  (2) Amtrak shall notify each affected State or regional or local transportation authority of a discontinuance under this subsection as soon as possible after Amtrak decides to discontinue the service.
  (c) T4Employee Protective ArrangementsK.–(1) Amtrak or a rail carrier (including a terminal company) shall provide fair and equitable arrangements to protect the interests of employees of Amtrak or a rail carrier, as the case may be, affected by a discontinuance of intercity rail passenger service, including a discontinuance of service provided by a rail carrier under a facility or service agreement under section 24308(a) of this title under a modification or ending of the agreement or because Amtrak begins providing that service. Arrangements shall include provisions that may be necessary for–
    (A) the preservation of rights, privileges, and benefits (including continuation of pension rights and benefits) under existing collective bargaining agreements or otherwise;
    (B) the continuation of collective bargaining rights;
    (C) the protection of individual employees against a worsening of their positions related to employment;
    (D) assurances of priority of reemployment of employees whose employment is ended or who are laid off; and
    (E) paid training and retraining programs.
  (2) With respect to Amtrak“s obligations under this subsection and in an agreement to carry out this subsection involving only Amtrak and its employees, a discontinuance of intercity rail passenger service does not include an adjustment in frequency, or seasonal suspension of intercity rail passenger trains that causes a temporary suspension of service, unless the adjustment or suspension reduces passenger train operations on a particular route to fewer than 3 round trips a week at any time during a calendar year.
  (3) Arrangements under this subsection shall provide benefits at least equal to benefits established under section 11347 of this title.
  (4) A contract under this chapter or section 24308(a) of this title shall specify the terms of protective arrangements.
  (5) This subsection does not impose on Amtrak an obligation of a rail carrier related to a right, privilege, or benefit earned by an employee because of previous service performed for the carrier.
  (6) This subsection does not apply to Amtrak Commuter.
