  (a) T4Northeast Corridor Coordination BoardK.–(1) The Northeast Corridor Coordination Board is composed of the following members:
    (A) one individual from each commuter authority (as defined in section 1135(a) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (45 U.S.C. 1104)) that provides or makes a contract to provide commuter rail passenger transportation over the main line of the Northeast Corridor.
    (B) 2 individuals selected by Amtrak.
    (C) one individual selected by the Consolidated Rail Corporation.
  (2) The Board shall recommend to Amtrak–
    (A) policies that ensure equitable access to the Northeast Corridor, considering the need for equitable access by commuter and intercity rail passenger transportation and the requirements of section 24308(c) of this title; and
    (B) equitable policies for the Northeast Corridor related to–
      (i) dispatching;
      (ii) public information;
      (iii) maintaining equipment and facilities;
      (iv) major capital facility investments; and
      (v) harmonizing equipment acquisitions, rates, and schedules.
  (3) The Board may recommend to the board of directors and President of Amtrak action necessary to resolve differences on providing transportation, except for facilities and transportation matters under section 24308(a) or 24904(a)(5) and (c) of this title.
  (b) T4Northeast Corridor Safety CommitteeK.–(1) The Northeast Corridor Safety Committee is composed of members appointed by the Secretary of Transportation. The members shall be representatives of–
    (A) the Secretary;
    (B) Amtrak;
    (C) freight carriers operating more than 150,000 train miles a year on the main line of the Northeast Corridor;
    (D) commuter agencies;
    (E) rail passengers;
    (F) rail labor; and
    (G) other individuals and organizations the Secretary decides have a significant interest in rail safety.
  (2) The Secretary shall consult with the Committee about safety improvements on the Northeast Corridor main line. The Committee shall meet at least once every 2 years to consider safety matters on the main line.
  (3) At the beginning of the first session of each Congress, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress on the status of efforts to improve safety on the Northeast Corridor main line. The report shall include the safety recommendations of the Committee and the comments of the Secretary on those recommendations.
  (4) The Committee shall cease to exist on January 1, 1999, or on another date the Secretary decides is appropriate. The Secretary shall notify Congress in writing of a decision to terminate the Committee on another date.
