  (a) T4GeneralK.–To carry out this chapter and the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 (45 U.S.C. 701 et seq.), Amtrak may–
    (1) acquire, maintain, and dispose of any interest in property used to provide improved high-speed rail transportation under section 24902 of this title;
    (2) acquire, by condemnation or otherwise, any interest in real property that Amtrak considers necessary to carry out the goals of section 24902;
    (3) provide for rail freight, intercity rail passenger, and commuter rail passenger transportation over property acquired under this section;
    (4) improve rail rights of way between Boston, Massachusetts, and the District of Columbia (including the route through Springfield, Massachusetts, and routes to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and Albany, New York, from the Northeast Corridor main line) to achieve the goals of section 24902 of providing improved high-speed rail passenger transportation between Boston, Massachusetts, and the District of Columbia, and intermediate intercity markets;
    (5) acquire, build, improve, and install passenger stations, communications and electric power facilities and equipment, public and private highway and pedestrian crossings, and other facilities and equipment necessary to provide improved high-speed rail passenger transportation over rights of way improved under clause (4) of this subsection;
    (6) make agreements with other carriers and commuter authorities to grant, acquire, or make arrangements for rail freight or commuter rail passenger transportation over, rights of way and facilities acquired under the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 (45 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) and the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 801 et seq.); and
    (7) appoint a general manager of the Northeast Corridor improvement program.
  (b) T4Compensatory AgreementsK.–Rail freight and commuter rail passenger transportation provided under subsection (a)(3) of this section shall be provided under compensatory agreements with the responsible carriers.
  (c) T4Compensation for Transportation Over Certain Rights of Way and FacilitiesK.–(1) An agreement under subsection (a)(6) of this section shall provide for reasonable reimbursement of costs but may not cross-subsidize intercity rail passenger, commuter rail passenger, and rail freight transportation.
  (2) If the parties do not agree, the Interstate Commerce Commission shall order that the transportation continue over facilities acquired under the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 (45 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) and the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) and shall determine compensation (without allowing cross-subsidization between intercity rail passenger and rail freight transportation) for the transportation not later than 120 days after the dispute is submitted. The Commission shall assign to a rail freight carrier obtaining transportation under this subsection the costs Amtrak incurs only for the benefit of the carrier, plus a proportionate share of all other costs of providing transportation under this paragraph incurred for the common benefit of Amtrak and the carrier. The proportionate share shall be based on relative measures of volume of car operations, tonnage, or other factors that reasonably reflect the relative use of rail property covered by this subsection.
  (3) This subsection does not prevent the parties from making an agreement under subsection (a)(6) of this section after the Commission makes a decision under this subsection.
