  (a) T4Contents of NotificationK.–Notification by a manufacturer required under section 30118 of this title of a defect or noncompliance shall contain–
    (1) a clear description of the defect or noncompliance;
    (2) an evaluation of the risk to motor vehicle safety reasonably related to the defect or noncompliance;
    (3) the measures to be taken to obtain a remedy of the defect or noncompliance;
    (4) a statement that the manufacturer giving notice will remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge under section 30120 of this title;
    (5) the earliest date on which the defect or noncompliance will be remedied without charge, and for tires, the period during which the defect or noncompliance will be remedied without charge under section 30120 of this title;
    (6) the procedure the recipient of a notice is to follow to inform the Secretary of Transportation when a manufacturer, distributor, or dealer does not remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge under section 30120 of this title; and
    (7) other information the Secretary prescribes by regulation.
  (b) T4Earliest Remedy DateK.–The date specified by a manufacturer in a notification under subsection (a)(5) of this section or section 30121(c)(2) of this title is the earliest date that parts and facilities reasonably can be expected to be available to remedy the defect or noncompliance. The Secretary may disapprove the date.
  (c) T4Time for NotificationK.–Notification required under section 30118 of this title shall be given within a reasonable time–
    (1) prescribed by the Secretary, after the manufacturer receives notice of a final decision under section 30118(b) of this title; or
    (2) after the manufacturer first decides that a safety-related defect or noncompliance exists under section 30118(c) of this title.
  (d) T4Means of Providing NotificationK.–(1) Notification required under section 30118 of this title about a motor vehicle shall be sent by first class mail–
    (A) to each person registered under State law as the owner and whose name and address are reasonably ascertainable by the manufacturer through State records or other available sources; or
    (B) if a registered owner is not notified under clause (A) of this paragraph, to the most recent purchaser known to the manufacturer.
  (2) Notification required under section 30118 of this title about replacement equipment (except a tire) shall be sent by first class mail to the most recent purchaser known to the manufacturer. In addition, if the Secretary decides that public notice is required for motor vehicle safety, public notice shall be given in the way required by the Secretary after consulting with the manufacturer.
  (3) Notification required under section 30118 of this title about a tire shall be sent by first class mail (or, if the manufacturer prefers, by certified mail) to the most recent purchaser known to the manufacturer. In addition, if the Secretary decides that public notice is required for motor vehicle safety, public notice shall be given in the way required by the Secretary after consulting with the manufacturer. In deciding whether public notice is required, the Secretary shall consider–
    (A) the magnitude of the risk to motor vehicle safety caused by the defect or noncompliance; and
    (B) the cost of public notice compared to the additional number of owners the notice may reach.
  (4) A dealer to whom a motor vehicle or replacement equipment was delivered shall be notified by certified mail or quicker means if available.
  (e) T4Second NotificationK.–If the Secretary decides that a notification sent by a manufacturer under this section has not resulted in an adequate number of motor vehicles or items of replacement equipment being returned for remedy, the Secretary may order the manufacturer to send a 2d notification in the way the Secretary prescribes by regulation.
  (f) T4Notification by Lessor to LesseeK.–(1) In this subsection, ””leased motor vehicle““ means a motor vehicle that is leased to a person for at least 4 months by a lessor that has leased at least 5 motor vehicles in the 12 months before the date of the notification.
  (2) A lessor that receives a notification required by section 30118 of this title about a leased motor vehicle shall provide a copy of the notification to the lessee in the way the Secretary prescribes by regulation.
