  (a) T4Providing Information and NoticeK.–The Secretary of Transportation may require that each manufacturer of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment provide technical information related to performance and safety required to carry out this chapter. The Secretary may require the manufacturer to give the following notice of that information when the Secretary decides it is necessary:
    (1) to each prospective purchaser of a vehicle or equipment before the first sale other than for resale at each location at which the vehicle or equipment is offered for sale by a person having a legal relationship with the manufacturer, in a way the Secretary decides is appropriate.
    (2) to the first purchaser of a vehicle or equipment other than for resale when the vehicle or equipment is bought, in printed matter placed in the vehicle or attached to or accompanying the equipment.
  (b) T4Maintaining Purchaser Records and ProceduresK.–(1) A manufacturer of a motor vehicle or tire (except a retreaded tire) shall cause to be maintained a record of the name and address of the first purchaser of each vehicle or tire it produces and, to the extent prescribed by regulations of the Secretary, shall cause to be maintained a record of the name and address of the first purchaser of replacement equipment (except a tire) that the manufacturer produces. The Secretary may prescribe by regulation the records to be maintained and reasonable procedures for maintaining the records under this subsection, including procedures to be followed by distributors and dealers to assist the manufacturer in obtaining the information required by this subsection. A procedure shall be reasonable for the type of vehicle or tire involved, and shall provide reasonable assurance that a customer list of a distributor or dealer, or similar information, will be made available to a person (except the distributor or dealer) only when necessary to carry out this subsection and sections 30118–30121, 30166(f), and 30167(a) and (b) of this title. Availability of assistance from a distributor or dealer does not affect an obligation of a manufacturer under this subsection.
  (2)    (A) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, the Secretary may require a distributor or dealer to maintain a record under paragraph (1) of this subsection only if the business of the distributor or dealer is owned or controlled by a manufacturer of tires.
    (B) The Secretary shall require each distributor and dealer whose business is not owned or controlled by a manufacturer of tires to give a registration form (containing the tire identification number) to the first purchaser of a tire. The Secretary shall prescribe the form, which shall be standardized for all tires and designed to allow the purchaser to complete and return it directly to the manufacturer of the tire. The manufacturer shall give sufficient copies of forms to distributors and dealers.
  (3)    (A) The Secretary shall evaluate from time to time how successful the procedures under paragraph (2) of this subsection have been in helping to maintain records about first purchasers of tires. After each evaluation, the Secretary shall decide–
      (i) the extent to which distributors and dealers have complied with the procedures;
      (ii) the extent to which distributors and dealers have encouraged first purchasers of tires to register the tires; and
      (iii) whether to prescribe for manufacturers, distributors, or dealers other requirements that the Secretary decides will increase significantly the percentage of first purchasers of tires about whom records are maintained.
    (B) The Secretary may prescribe a requirement under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph only if the Secretary decides it is necessary to reduce the risk to motor vehicle safety, after considering–
      (i) the cost of the requirement to manufacturers and the burden of the requirement on distributors and dealers, compared to the increase in the percentage of first purchasers of tires about whom records would be maintained as a result of the requirement;
      (ii) the extent to which distributors and dealers have complied with the procedures in paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
      (iii) the extent to which distributors and dealers have encouraged first purchasers of tires to register the tires.
    (C) A manufacturer of tires shall reimburse distributors and dealers of that manufacturer“s tires for all reasonable costs incurred by the distributors and dealers in complying with a requirement prescribed by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
    (D) After making a decision under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to each House of Congress a report containing a detailed statement of the decision and an explanation of the reasons for the decision.
  (c) T4Rollover Tests.–
    (1) T4DevelopmentK.–Not later than 2 years from the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall–
      (A) develop a dynamic test on rollovers by motor vehicles for the purposes of a consumer information program; and
      (B) carry out a program of conducting such tests.
    (2) T4Test resultsK.–As the Secretary develops a test under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall conduct a rulemaking to determine how best to disseminate test results to the public.
    (3) T4Motor vehicles coveredK.–This subsection applies to motor vehicles, including passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, and trucks, with a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less. A motor vehicle designed to provide temporary residential accommodations is not covered.
