  (a) T4Labeling RequirementK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall require that a pneumatic tire subject to a motor vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter be labeled permanently and conspicuously with safety information the Secretary decides is necessary to carry out section 30101 of this title.
  (b) T4Contents of LabelK.–Labeling required on a tire under subsection (a) of this section shall include–
    (1)      (A) identification of the manufacturer;
      (B) for a retreaded tire, identification of the retreader; or
      (C) for a tire containing a brand name (other than the name of the manufacturer), a code mark allowing a seller to identify the manufacturer to the purchaser;
    (2) the composition of material used in the ply of the tire;
    (3) the number of plies in the tire;
    (4) the maximum allowable load for the tire; and
    (5)      (A) a statement that the tire complies with minimum safe performance standards prescribed under this chapter; or
      (B) a mark or symbol the Secretary prescribes for use by a manufacturer or retreader complying with those standards.
  (c) T4Additional InformationK.–The Secretary may require that additional safety information be disclosed to a purchaser when a tire is sold.
  (d) T4Regrooved Tire LimitationsK.–(1) In this subsection, ””regrooved tire““ means a tire with a new tread produced by cutting into the tread of a worn tire.
  (2) The Secretary may authorize the sale, offer for sale, introduction for sale, or delivery for introduction in interstate commerce, of a regrooved tire or a motor vehicle equipped with regrooved tires if the Secretary decides the tires are designed and made in a way consistent with section 30101 of this title. A person may not sell, offer for sale, introduce for sale, or deliver for introduction in interstate commerce, a regrooved tire or a vehicle equipped with regrooved tires unless authorized by the Secretary.
  (e) T4Uniform Quality Grading System, Nomenclature, and Marketing PracticesK.–The Secretary shall prescribe through standards a uniform quality grading system for motor vehicle tires to help consumers make an informed choice when purchasing tires. The Secretary also shall cooperate with industry and the Federal Trade Commission to the greatest extent practicable to eliminate deceptive and confusing tire nomenclature and marketing practices. A tire standard or regulation prescribed under this chapter supersedes an order or administrative interpretation of the Commission.
  (f) T4Maximum Load StandardsK.–The Secretary shall require a motor vehicle to be equipped with tires that meet maximum load standards when the vehicle is loaded with a reasonable amount of luggage and the total number of passengers the vehicle is designed to carry. The vehicle shall be equipped with those tires by the manufacturer or by the first purchaser when the vehicle is first bought in good faith other than for resale.
