  (a) T4General AuthorityK.–(1) The Secretary of Transportation shall conduct research, testing, development, and training necessary to carry out this chapter. The research, development, testing, and training shall include–
    (A) collecting information to determine the relationship between motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment performance characteristics and–
      (i) accidents involving motor vehicles; and
      (ii) the occurrence of death or personal injury resulting from those accidents;
    (B) obtaining experimental and other motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment for research or testing; and
    (C) selling or otherwise disposing of test motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment and crediting the proceeds to current appropriations available to carry out this chapter.
  (2) The Secretary may carry out this subsection through grants to States, interstate authorities, and nonprofit institutions.
  (b) T4Use of Public AgenciesK.–In carrying out this chapter, the Secretary shall use the services, research, and testing facilities of public agencies to the maximum extent practicable to avoid duplication.
  (c) T4FacilitiesK.–The Secretary may plan, design, and build a new facility or modify an existing facility to conduct research, development, and testing in traffic safety, highway safety, and motor vehicle safety. An expenditure of more than $100,000 for planning, design, or construction may be made only if the planning, design, or construction is approved by substantially similar resolutions by the Committees on Commerce and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Environment and Public Works of the Senate. To obtain that approval, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a prospectus on the proposed facility. The prospectus shall include–
    (1) a brief description of the facility being planned, designed, or built;
    (2) the location of the facility;
    (3) an estimate of the maximum cost of the facility;
    (4) a statement identifying private and public agencies that will use the facility and the contribution each agency will make to the cost of the facility; and
    (5) a justification of the need for the facility.
  (d) T4Increasing Costs of Approved FacilitiesK.–The estimated maximum cost of a facility approved under subsection (c) of this section may be increased by an amount equal to the percentage increase in construction costs from the date the prospectus is submitted to Congress. However, the increase in the cost of the facility may not be more than 10 percent of the estimated maximum cost included in the prospectus. The Secretary shall decide what increase in construction costs has occurred.
  (e) T4Availability of Information, Patents, and DevelopmentsK.–When the United States Government makes more than a minimal contribution to a research or development activity under this chapter, the Secretary shall include in the arrangement for the activity a provision to ensure that all information, patents, and developments related to the activity are available to the public. However, the owner of a background patent may not be deprived of a right under the patent.
