  (a) T4Referrals of Information RequestsK.–(1) To carry out duties related to driver licensing, driver improvement, or transportation safety, the chief driver licensing official of a participating State may request the Secretary of Transportation to refer, electronically or by United States mail, a request for information about the motor vehicle driving record of an individual to the chief driver licensing official of a State of record.
  (2) The Secretary of Transportation shall relay, electronically or by United States mail, information received from the chief driver licensing official of a State of record in response to a request under paragraph (1) of this subsection to the chief driver licensing official of the participating State requesting the information. However, the Secretary may refuse to relay information to the chief driver licensing official of a participating State that does not comply with section 30304 of this title.
  (b) T4Requests To Obtain InformationK.–(1) The Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board and the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to obtain information under subsection (a) of this section about an individual who is the subject of an accident investigation conducted by the Board or the Administrator. The Chairman and the Administrator may receive the information.
  (2) An individual who is employed, or is seeking employment, as a driver of a motor vehicle may request the chief driver licensing official of the State in which the individual is employed or seeks employment to provide information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section to the individual“s employer or prospective employer. An employer or prospective employer may receive the information and shall make the information available to the individual. Information may not be obtained from the National Driver Register under this paragraph if the information was entered in the Register more than 3 years before the request.
  (3) An individual who has received, or is applying for, an airman“s certificate may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to provide information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. The Administrator may receive the information and shall make the information available to the individual for review and written comment. The Administrator may use the information to verify information required to be reported to the Administrator by an airman applying for an airman medical certificate and to evaluate whether the airman meets the minimum standards prescribed by the Administrator to be issued an airman medical certificate. The Administrator may not otherwise divulge or use the information. Information may not be obtained from the Register under this paragraph if the information was entered in the Register more than 3 years before the request, unless the information is about a revocation or suspension still in effect on the date of the request.
  (4) An individual who is employed, or is seeking employment, by a rail carrier as an operator of a locomotive may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to provide information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section to the individual“s employer or prospective employer or to the Secretary of Transportation. Information may not be obtained from the Register under this paragraph if the information was entered in the Register more than 3 years before the request, unless the information is about a revocation or suspension still in effect on the date of the request.
  (5) An individual who holds, or is applying for, a license or certificate of registry under section 7101 of title 46, or a merchant mariner“s document under section 7302 of title 46, may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to provide information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. The Secretary may receive the information and shall make the information available to the individual for review and written comment before denying, suspending, or revoking the license, certificate, or document of the individual based on the information and before using the information in an action taken under chapter 77 of title 46. The Secretary may not otherwise divulge or use the information, except for purposes of section 7101, 7302, or 7703 of title 46. Information may not be obtained from the Register under this paragraph if the information was entered in the Register more than 3 years before the request, unless the information is about a revocation or suspension still in effect on the date of the request.
  (6) An individual may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to obtain information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section–
    (A) to learn whether information about the individual is being provided;
    (B) to verify the accuracy of the information; or
    (C) to obtain a certified copy of the information.
  (7) An individual who is an officer, chief warrant officer, or enlisted member of the Coast Guard or Coast Guard Reserve (including a cadet or an applicant for appointment or enlistment of any of the foregoing and any member of a uniformed service who is assigned to the Coast Guard) may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to provide information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section to the Commandant of the Coast Guard. The Commandant may receive the information and shall make the information available to the individual. Information may not be obtained from the Register under this paragraph if the information was entered in the Register more than 3 years before the request, unless the information is about a revocation or suspension still in effect on the date of the request.
  (8) An individual who is seeking employment by an air carrier as a pilot may request the chief driver licensing official of a State to provide information about the individual under subsection (a) of this section to the prospective employer of the individual or to the Secretary of Transportation. Information may not be obtained from the National Driver Register under this subsection if the information was entered in the Register more than 5 years before the request unless the information is about a revocation or suspension still in effect on the date of the request.
  (9) A request under this subsection shall be made in the form and way the Secretary of Transportation prescribes by regulation.
  (c) T4Relationship to Other LawsK.–A request for, or receipt of, information from the Register is subject to sections 552 and 552a of title 5, and other applicable laws of the United States or a State, except that–
    (1) the Secretary of Transportation may not relay or otherwise provide information specified in section 30304(b)(1)(A) or (C) of this title to a person not authorized by this section to receive the information;
    (2) a request for, or receipt of, information by a chief driver licensing official, or by a person authorized by subsection (b) of this section to request and receive the information, is deemed to be a routine use under section 552a(b) of title 5; and
    (3) receipt of information by a person authorized by this section to receive the information is deemed to be a disclosure under section 552a(c) of title 5, except that the Secretary of Transportation is not required to retain the accounting made under section 552a(c)(1) for more than 7 years after the disclosure.
  (d) T4Availability of Information Provided Under Prior LawK.–Information provided by a State under the Act of July 14, 1960 (Public Law 86–660, 74 Stat. 526), as restated by section 401 of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Public Law 89–563, 80 Stat. 730), and under this chapter, shall be available under this section during the transition from the register maintained under that Act to the Register maintained under this chapter.
