  (a) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, ””commercial motor vehicle““ means a self-propelled or towed vehicle used on highways in intrastate or interstate commerce to transport passengers or property, if the vehicle–
    (1) has a gross vehicle weight rating of at least 10,001 pounds;
    (2) is designed to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver; or
    (3) is used in transporting material found by the Secretary of Transportation to be hazardous under section 5103 of this title and that material is transported in a quantity requiring placarding under regulations the Secretary prescribes under section 5103.
  (b) T4Information SystemK.–(1) In cooperation with the States, the Secretary may establish as part of the motor carrier safety information network system of the Department of Transportation and similar State systems, an information system to serve as a clearinghouse and depository of information related to State registration and licensing of commercial motor vehicles and the safety fitness of the commercial motor vehicle registrants. The Secretary shall include in the system information on the safety fitness of each of the registrants and other information the Secretary considers appropriate, including information on vehicle inspections and out-of-service orders.
  (2) The operation of the information system established under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be paid for by a schedule of user fees. The Secretary may authorize the operation of the information system by contract, through an agreement with one or more States, or by designating, after consulting with the States, a third party that represents the interests of the States.
  (3) The Secretary shall prescribe standards to ensure–
    (A) uniform information collection and reporting by the States necessary to carry out this section; and
    (B) the availability and reliability of the information to the States and the Secretary from the information system.
  (c) T4Demonstration ProjectK.–The Secretary shall make grants to States to carry out a project to demonstrate ways of establishing an information system that will link the motor carrier safety information network system of the Department and similar State systems with the motor vehicle registration and licensing systems of the States. The project shall be designed–
    (1) to allow a State when issuing license plates for a commercial motor vehicle to establish through use of the information system the safety fitness of the person seeking to register the vehicle; and
    (2) to decide on types of sanctions that may be imposed on the registrant, or the types of conditions or limitations that may be imposed on the operations of the registrant, to ensure the safety fitness of the registrant.
  (d) T4Review of State SystemsK.–Not later than December 18, 1992, the Secretary, in cooperation with the States, shall review State motor vehicle registration systems related to license tags for commercial motor vehicles to decide whether those systems can be used in carrying out this section.
  (e) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
  (f) T4Report to CongressK.–Not later than January 1, 1995, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress on the cost, benefits, and feasibility of the information system established under subsection (b) of this section. If the Secretary decides that the system would be beneficial on a nationwide basis, the Secretary shall include in the report recommendations on legislation to implement a nationwide system.
  (g) T4Authorization of AppropriationsK.–Amounts necessary to carry out this section may be made available to the Secretary under section 31104(g)(1)(B) of this title.
