   In this subchapter–
  (1) ””commercial motor vehicle““ means a self-propelled or towed vehicle used on the highways in interstate commerce to transport passengers or property, if the vehicle–
    (A) has a gross vehicle weight rating of at least 10,001 pounds;
    (B) is designed or used to transport passengers for compensation, but excluding vehicles providing taxicab service and having a capacity of not more than 6 passengers and not operated on a regular route or between specified places;
    (C) is designed or used to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver, and is not used to transport passengers for compensation; or
    (D) is used in transporting material found by the Secretary of Transportation to be hazardous under section 5103 of this title and transported in a quantity requiring placarding under regulations prescribed by the Secretary under section 5103.
  (2) ””employee““ means an operator of a commercial motor vehicle (including an independent contractor when operating a commercial motor vehicle), a mechanic, a freight handler, or an individual not an employer, who–
    (A) directly affects commercial motor vehicle safety in the course of employment; and
    (B) is not an employee of the United States Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State acting in the course of the employment by the Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State.
  (3) ””employer““–
    (A) means a person engaged in a business affecting interstate commerce that owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle in connection with that business, or assigns an employee to operate it; but
    (B) does not include the Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State.
  (4) ””interstate commerce““ means trade, traffic, or transportation in the United States between a place in a State and–
    (A) a place outside that State (including a place outside the United States); or
    (B) another place in the same State through another State or through a place outside the United States.
  (5) ””intrastate commerce““ means trade, traffic, or transportation in a State that is not interstate commerce.
  (6) ””regulation““ includes a standard or order.
  (7) ””State““ means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and, in sections 31136 and 31140–31142 of this title, a political subdivision of a State.
  (8) ””State law““ includes a law enacted by a political subdivision of a State.
  (9) ””State regulation““ includes a regulation prescribed by a political subdivision of a State.
  (10) ””United States““ means the States of the United States and the District of Columbia.
