  (a) T4Establishment and General DutyK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall establish the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Regulatory Review Panel. The Panel shall analyze and review State laws and regulations under sections 31140 and 31141 of this title.
  (b) T4Specific DutiesK.–The Panel shall–
    (1) carry out those duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Panel under sections 31140 and 31141 of this title;
    (2) conduct a study to–
      (A) evaluate the need, if any, for additional assistance from the United States Government to the States to enable them to enforce the regulations prescribed by the Secretary under section 31136 of this title; and
      (B) decide on other methods of furthering the purposes of this subchapter; and
    (3) make recommendations to the Secretary based on the results of the study conducted under clause (2) of this subsection.
  (c) T4Composition, Appointment, and TermsK.–(1) The Panel shall be composed of 15 members as follows:
    (A) the Secretary or the Secretary“s delegate.
    (B) 7 individuals appointed by the Secretary from among individuals who represent the interests of States and political subdivisions of States and whose names have been submitted to the Secretary by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate or the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives.
    (C) 7 individuals appointed by the Secretary from among individuals who represent the interests of business, consumer, labor, and safety groups and whose names have been submitted to the Secretary by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate or the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives.
  (2) The Secretary shall select the individuals to be appointed under this subsection on the basis of their knowledge, expertise, or experience related to commercial motor vehicle safety. Half of the appointments shall be made from names submitted by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the other half from names submitted by the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives. Each of these committees shall submit to the Secretary the names of 20 individuals qualified to serve on the Panel.
  (3) The term of each member of the Panel appointed under paragraph (1)(B) and (C) of this subsection is 7 years.
  (4) A vacancy on the Panel shall be filled in the way the original appointment was made. The vacancy does not affect the Panel“s powers.
  (d) T4Chairman, Quorum, Meetings, and PayK.–(1) The Secretary is the Chairman of the Panel.
  (2) Eight members of the Panel are a quorum, but the Panel may establish a lesser number as a quorum to hold hearings, take testimony, and receive evidence.
  (3) The Panel shall meet at the call of the Chairman or a majority of its members.
  (4) Members of the Panel shall serve without pay, except that they shall receive expenses under section 5703 of title 5.
  (e) T4Personnel, Office Space, and Support ServicesK.–On request of the Panel, the Secretary shall–
    (1) detail personnel of the Department of Transportation to the Panel as necessary to assist the Panel in carrying out its duties and powers; and
    (2) provide office space, supplies, equipment, and other support services to the Panel as necessary for the Panel to carry out its duties and powers.
  (f) T4Hearings and Other ActionsK.–To carry out the duties and powers of the Panel under this subchapter, the Panel or any member authorized by the Panel may hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and take other actions the Panel or the member considers advisable. A member of the Panel may administer oaths to witnesses appearing before the Panel or the member.
  (g) T4Temporary and Intermittent ServicesK.–Subject to regulations the Panel may prescribe, the Chairman may procure the temporary or intermittent services of experts or consultants under section 3109 of title 5.
