  (a) T4Grants for Commercial Driver“s License Program Improvements.–
    (1) T4General authorityK.–The Secretary of Transportation may make a grant to a State in a fiscal year–
      (A) to comply with the requirements of section 31311; and
      (B) in the case of a State that is making a good faith effort toward substantial compliance with the requirements of section 31311 and this section, to improve its implementation of its commercial driver“s license program.
    (2) T4Purposes for which grants may be used.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–A State may use grants under paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B) only for expenses directly related to its compliance with section 31311; except that a grant under paragraph (1)(B) may be used for improving implementation of the State“s commercial driver“s license program, including expenses for computer hardware and software, publications, testing, personnel, training, and quality control. The grant may not be used to rent, lease, or buy land or buildings.
      (B) T4PriorityK.–In making grants under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall give priority to States that will use such grants to achieve compliance with the requirements of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999, including the amendments made by such Act.
    (3) T4ApplicationK.–In order to receive a grant under this section, a State shall submit an application for such grant that is in such form, and contains such information, as the Secretary may require. The application shall include the State“s assessment of its commercial driver“s license program.
    (4) T4Maintenance of expendituresK.–The Secretary may make a grant to a State under this subsection only if the State agrees that the total expenditure of amounts of the State and political subdivisions of the State, exclusive of amounts from the United States, for the State“s commercial driver“s license program will be maintained at a level at least equal to the average level of that expenditure by the State and political subdivisions of the State for the last 2 fiscal years of the State ending before the date of enactment of this section.
    (5) T4Government shareK.–The Secretary shall reimburse a State under a grant made under this subsection an amount that is not more than 100 percent of the costs incurred by the State in a fiscal year in complying with section 31311 and improving its implementation of its commercial driver“s license program. In determining such costs, the Secretary shall include in-kind contributions by the State. Amounts required to be expended by the State under paragraph (4) may not be included as part of the non-Federal share of such costs.
  (b) T4High-Priority Activities.–
    (1) T4Grants for national concernsK.–The Secretary may make a grant to a State agency, local government, or other person for 100 percent of the costs of research, development, demonstration projects, public education, and other special activities and projects relating to commercial driver licensing and motor vehicle safety that are of benefit to all jurisdictions of the United States or are designed to address national safety concerns and circumstances.
    (2) T4FundingK.–The Secretary may deduct up to 10 percent of the amounts made available to carry out this section for a fiscal year to make grants under this subsection.
  (c) T4Emerging IssuesK.–The Secretary may designate up to 10 percent of the amounts made available to carry out this section for a fiscal year for allocation to a State agency, local government, or other person at the discretion of the Secretary to address emerging issues relating to commercial driver“s license improvements.
  (d) T4ApportionmentK.–Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c), all amounts made available to carry out this section for a fiscal year shall be apportioned to States according to criteria prescribed by the Secretary.
