  (a) T4WaiversK.–The Secretary may grant a waiver that relieves a person from compliance in whole or in part with a regulation issued under this chapter or section 31136 if the Secretary determines that it is in the public interest to grant the waiver and that the waiver is likely to achieve a level of safety that is equivalent to, or greater than, the level of safety that would be obtained in the absence of the waiver–
    (1) for a period not in excess of 3 months;
    (2) limited in scope and circumstances;
    (3) for nonemergency and unique events; and
    (4) subject to such conditions as the Secretary may impose.
  (b) T4Exemptions.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Upon receipt of a request pursuant to paragraph (3), the Secretary of Transportation may grant to a person or class of persons an exemption from a regulation prescribed under this chapter or section 31136 if the Secretary finds such exemption would likely achieve a level of safety that is equivalent to, or greater than, the level that would be achieved absent such exemption. An exemption may be granted for no longer than 2 years from its approval date and may be renewed upon application to the Secretary.
    (2) T4Authority to revoke exemptionK.–The Secretary shall immediately revoke an exemption if–
      (A) the person fails to comply with the terms and conditions of such exemption;
      (B) the exemption has resulted in a lower level of safety than was maintained before the exemption was granted; or
      (C) continuation of the exemption would not be consistent with the goals and objectives of this chapter or section 31136, as the case may be.
    (3) T4Requests for exemptionK.–Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section and after notice and an opportunity for public comment, the Secretary shall specify by regulation the procedures by which a person may request an exemption. Such regulations shall, at a minimum, require the person to provide the following information for each exemption request:
      (A) The provisions from which the person requests exemption.
      (B) The time period during which the requested exemption would apply.
      (C) An analysis of the safety impacts the requested exemption may cause.
      (D) The specific countermeasures the person would undertake to ensure an equivalent or greater level of safety than would be achieved absent the requested exemption.
    (4) T4Notice and comment.–
      (A) T4Upon receipt of a requestK.–Upon receipt of an exemption request, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a notice explaining the request that has been filed and shall give the public an opportunity to inspect the safety analysis and any other relevant information known to the Secretary and to comment on the request. This subparagraph does not require the release of information protected by law from public disclosure.
      (B) T4Upon granting a requestK.–Upon granting a request for exemption, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the name of the person granted the exemption, the provisions from which the person will be exempt, the effective period, and all terms and conditions of the exemption.
      (C) T4After denying a requestK.–After denying a request for exemption, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the name of the person denied the exemption and the reasons for such denial. The Secretary may meet the requirement of this subparagraph by periodically publishing in the Federal Register the names of persons denied exemptions and the reasons for such denials.
    (5) T4Applications to be dealt with promptlyK.–The Secretary shall grant or deny an exemption request after a thorough review of its safety implications, but in no case later than 180 days after the filing date of such request.
    (6) T4Terms and conditionsK.–The Secretary shall establish terms and conditions for each exemption to ensure that it will likely achieve a level of safety that is equivalent to, or greater than, the level that would be achieved absent such exemption. The Secretary shall monitor the implementation of the exemption to ensure compliance with its terms and conditions.
    (7) T4Notification of state compliance and enforcement personnelK.–Before granting a request for exemption, the Secretary shall notify State safety compliance and enforcement personnel, including roadside inspectors, and the public that a person will be operating pursuant to an exemption and any terms and conditions that will apply to the exemption.
  (c) T4Pilot Programs.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary may conduct pilot programs to evaluate alternatives to regulations relating to, or innovative approaches to, motor carrier, commercial motor vehicle, and driver safety. Such pilot programs may include exemptions from a regulation prescribed under this chapter or section 31136 if the pilot program contains, at a minimum, the elements described in paragraph (2). The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a detailed description of each pilot program, including the exemptions to be considered, and provide notice and an opportunity for public comment before the effective date of the program.
    (2) T4Program elementsK.–In proposing a pilot program and before granting exemptions for purposes of a pilot program, the Secretary shall require, as a condition of approval of the project, that the safety measures in the project are designed to achieve a level of safety that is equivalent to, or greater than, the level of safety that would otherwise be achieved through compliance with the regulations prescribed under this chapter or section 31136. The Secretary shall include, at a minimum, the following elements in each pilot program plan:
      (A) A scheduled life of each pilot program of not more than 3 years.
      (B) A specific data collection and safety analysis plan that identifies a method for comparison.
      (C) A reasonable number of participants necessary to yield statistically valid findings.
      (D) An oversight plan to ensure that participants comply with the terms and conditions of participation.
      (E) Adequate countermeasures to protect the health and safety of study participants and the general public.
      (F) A plan to inform State partners and the public about the pilot program and to identify approved participants to safety compliance and enforcement personnel and to the public.
    (3) T4Authority to revoke participationK.–The Secretary shall immediately revoke participation in a pilot program of a motor carrier, commercial motor vehicle, or driver for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the pilot program or if continued participation would not be consistent with the goals and objectives of this chapter or section 31136, as the case may be.
    (4) T4Authority to terminate programK.–The Secretary shall immediately terminate a pilot program if its continuation would not be consistent with the goals and objectives of this chapter or section 31136, as the case may be.
    (5) T4Report to congressK.–At the conclusion of each pilot program, the Secretary shall report to Congress the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the program, including suggested amendments to laws and regulations that would enhance motor carrier, commercial motor vehicle, and driver safety and improve compliance with national safety standards.
  (d) T4Preemption of State RulesK.–During the time period that a waiver, exemption, or pilot program is in effect under this chapter or section 31136, no State shall enforce any law or regulation that conflicts with or is inconsistent with the waiver, exemption, or pilot program with respect to a person operating under the waiver or exemption or participating in the pilot program.
