  (a) T4General AuthorityK.–(1) To enable the Secretary of Transportation to decide whether a manufacturer of passenger motor vehicles or passenger motor vehicle equipment is complying with this chapter and standards prescribed under this chapter, the Secretary may require the manufacturer to–
    (A) keep records;
    (B) make reports;
    (C) provide items and information, including vehicles and equipment for testing at a negotiated price not more than the manufacturer“s cost; and
    (D) allow an officer or employee designated by the Secretary to inspect vehicles and relevant records of the manufacturer.
  (2) To enforce this chapter, an officer or employee designated by the Secretary, on presenting appropriate credentials and a written notice to the owner, operator, or agent in charge, may inspect a facility in which passenger motor vehicles or passenger motor vehicle equipment is manufactured, held for introduction in interstate commerce, or held for sale after introduction in interstate commerce. An inspection shall be conducted at a reasonable time, in a reasonable way, and with reasonable promptness.
  (b) T4Powers of Secretary and Civil Actions To EnforceK.–(1) In carrying out this chapter, the Secretary may–
    (A) inspect and copy records of any person at reasonable times;
    (B) order a person to file written reports or answers to specific questions, including reports or answers under oath; and
    (C) conduct hearings, administer oaths, take testimony, and require (by subpena or otherwise) the appearance and testimony of witnesses and the production of records the Secretary considers advisable.
  (2) A witness summoned under this subsection is entitled to the same fee and mileage the witness would have been paid in a court of the United States.
  (3) A civil action to enforce a subpena or order of the Secretary under this subsection may be brought in the United States district court for any judicial district in which the proceeding by the Secretary is conducted. The court may punish a failure to obey an order of the court to comply with the subpena or order of the Secretary as a contempt of court.
  (c) T4Confidentiality of InformationK.–(1) Information obtained by the Secretary under this chapter related to a confidential matter referred to in section 1905 of title 18 may be disclosed only–
    (A) to another officer or employee of the United States Government for use in carrying out this chapter; or
    (B) in a proceeding under this chapter.
  (2) This subsection does not authorize information to be withheld from a committee of Congress authorized to have the information.
  (3) Subject to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Secretary, on request, shall make available to the public at cost information the Secretary submits or receives in carrying out this chapter.
