  (a) T4Method of CalculationK.–(1) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall calculate the average fuel economy of a manufacturer subject to–
    (A) section 32902(a) of this title in a way prescribed by the Administrator; and
    (B) section 32902(b)–(d) of this title by dividing–
      (i) the number of passenger automobiles manufactured by the manufacturer in a model year; by
      (ii) the sum of the fractions obtained by dividing the number of passenger automobiles of each model manufactured by the manufacturer in that model year by the fuel economy measured for that model.
  (2)    (A) In this paragraph, ””electric vehicle““ means a vehicle powered primarily by an electric motor drawing electrical current from a portable source.
    (B) If a manufacturer manufactures an electric vehicle, the Administrator shall include in the calculation of average fuel economy under paragraph (1) of this subsection equivalent petroleum based fuel economy values determined by the Secretary of Energy for various classes of electric vehicles. The Secretary shall review those values each year and determine and propose necessary revisions based on the following factors:
      (i) the approximate electrical energy efficiency of the vehicle, considering the kind of vehicle and the mission and weight of the vehicle.
      (ii) the national average electrical generation and transmission efficiencies.
      (iii) the need of the United States to conserve all forms of energy and the relative scarcity and value to the United States of all fuel used to generate electricity.
      (iv) the specific patterns of use of electric vehicles compared to petroleum-fueled vehicles.
  (b) T4Separate Calculations for Passenger Automobiles Manufactured Domestically and Not DomesticallyK.–(1)(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (6) and (7) of this subsection, the Administrator shall make separate calculations under subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section for–
    (i) passenger automobiles manufactured domestically by a manufacturer (or included in this category under paragraph (5) of this subsection); and
    (ii) passenger automobiles not manufactured domestically by that manufacturer (or excluded from this category under paragraph (5) of this subsection).
  (B) Passenger automobiles described in subparagraph (A)(i) and (ii) of this paragraph are deemed to be manufactured by separate manufacturers under this chapter.
  (2) In this subsection (except as provided in paragraph (3)), a passenger automobile is deemed to be manufactured domestically in a model year if at least 75 percent of the cost to the manufacturer is attributable to value added in the United States or Canada, unless the assembly of the automobile is completed in Canada and the automobile is imported into the United States more than 30 days after the end of the model year.
  (3)    (A) In this subsection, a passenger automobile is deemed to be manufactured domestically in a model year, as provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, if at least 75 percent of the cost to the manufacturer is attributable to value added in the United States, Canada, or Mexico, unless the assembly of the automobile is completed in Canada or Mexico and the automobile is imported into the United States more than 30 days after the end of the model year.
    (B) Subparagraph (A) of this paragraph applies to automobiles manufactured by a manufacturer and sold in the United States, regardless of the place of assembly, as follows:
      (i) A manufacturer that began assembling automobiles in Mexico before model year 1992 may elect, during the period from January 1, 1997, through January 1, 2004, to have subparagraph (A) of this paragraph apply to all automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer beginning with the model year that begins after the date of the election.
      (ii) For a manufacturer that began assembling automobiles in Mexico after model year 1991, subparagraph (A) of this paragraph applies to all automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer beginning with the model year that begins after January 1, 1994, or the model year beginning after the date the manufacturer begins assembling automobiles in Mexico, whichever is later.
      (iii) A manufacturer not described in clause (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph that assembles automobiles in the United States or Canada, but not in Mexico, may elect, during the period from January 1, 1997, through January 1, 2004, to have subparagraph (A) of this paragraph apply to all automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer beginning with the model year that begins after the date of the election. However, if the manufacturer begins assembling automobiles in Mexico before making an election under this subparagraph, this clause does not apply, and the manufacturer is subject to clause (ii) of this subparagraph.
      (iv) For a manufacturer that does not assemble automobiles in the United States, Canada, or Mexico, subparagraph (A) of this paragraph applies to all automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer beginning with the model year that begins after January 1, 1994.
      (v) For a manufacturer described in clause (i) or (iii) of this subparagraph that does not make an election within the specified period, subparagraph (A) of this paragraph applies to all automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer beginning with the model year that begins after January 1, 2004.
    (C) The Secretary of Transportation shall prescribe reasonable procedures for elections under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
  (4) In this subsection, the fuel economy of a passenger automobile that is not manufactured domestically is deemed to be equal to the average fuel economy of all passenger automobiles manufactured by the same manufacturer that are not manufactured domestically.
  (5)    (A) A manufacturer may submit to the Secretary of Transportation for approval a plan, including supporting material, stating the actions and the deadlines for taking the actions, that will ensure that the model or models referred to in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph will be manufactured domestically before the end of the 4th model year covered by the plan. The Secretary promptly shall consider and act on the plan. The Secretary shall approve the plan unless–
      (i) the Secretary finds that the plan is inadequate to meet the requirements of this paragraph; or
      (ii) the manufacturer previously has submitted a plan approved by the Secretary under this paragraph.
    (B) If the plan is approved, the Administrator shall include under paragraph (1)(A)(i) and exclude under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) of this subsection, for each of the 4 model years covered by the plan, not more than 150,000 passenger automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer but not qualifying as domestically manufactured if–
      (i) the model or models involved previously have not been manufactured domestically;
      (ii) at least 50 percent of the cost to the manufacturer of each of the automobiles is attributable to value added in the United States or Canada;
      (iii) the automobiles, if their assembly was completed in Canada, are imported into the United States not later than 30 days after the end of the model year; and
      (iv) the model or models are manufactured domestically before the end of the 4th model year covered by the plan.
  (6)    (A) A manufacturer may file with the Secretary of Transportation a petition for an exemption from the requirement of separate calculations under paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection if the manufacturer began automobile production or assembly in the United States–
      (i) after December 22, 1975, and before May 1, 1980; or
      (ii) after April 30, 1980, if the manufacturer has engaged in the production or assembly in the United States for at least one model year ending before January 1, 1986.
    (B) The Secretary of Transportation shall grant the exemption unless the Secretary finds that the exemption would result in reduced employment in the United States related to motor vehicle manufacturing during the period of the exemption. An exemption under this paragraph is effective for 5 model years or, if requested by the manufacturer, a longer period provided by the Secretary in the order granting the exemption. The exemption applies to passenger automobiles manufactured by that manufacturer during the period of the exemption.
    (C) Before granting an exemption, the Secretary of Transportation shall provide notice of, and reasonable opportunity for, written or oral comment about the petition. The period for comment shall end not later than 60 days after the petition is filed, except that the Secretary may extend the period for not more than another 30 days. The Secretary shall decide whether to grant or deny the exemption, and publish notice of the decision in the Federal Register, not later than 90 days after the petition is filed, except that the Secretary may extend the time for decision to a later date (not later than 150 days after the petition is filed) if the Secretary publishes notice of, and reasons for, the extension in the Federal Register. If the Secretary does not make a decision within the time provided in this subparagraph, the petition is deemed to have been granted. Not later than 30 days after the end of the decision period, the Secretary shall submit a written statement of the reasons for not making a decision to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives.
  (7)    (A) A person adversely affected by a decision of the Secretary of Transportation granting or denying an exemption may file, not later than 30 days after publication of the notice of the decision, a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That court has exclusive jurisdiction to review the decision and to affirm, remand, or set aside the decision under section 706(2)(A)–(D) of title 5.
    (B) A judgment of the court under this subparagraph may be reviewed by the Supreme Court under section 1254 of title 28. Application for review by the Supreme Court must be made not later than 30 days after entry of the court“s judgment.
    (C) A decision of the Secretary of Transportation on a petition for an exemption under this paragraph may be reviewed administratively or judicially only as provided in this paragraph.
  (8) Notwithstanding section 32903 of this title, during a model year when an exemption under this paragraph is effective for a manufacturer–
    (A) credit may not be earned under section 32903(a) of this title by the manufacturer; and
    (B) credit may not be made available under section 32903(b)(2) of this title for the manufacturer.
  (c) T4Testing and Calculation ProceduresK.–The Administrator shall measure fuel economy for each model and calculate average fuel economy for a manufacturer under testing and calculation procedures prescribed by the Administrator. However, except under section 32908 of this title, the Administrator shall use the same procedures for passenger automobiles the Administrator used for model year 1975 (weighted 55 percent urban cycle and 45 percent highway cycle), or procedures that give comparable results. A measurement of fuel economy or a calculation of average fuel economy (except under section 32908) shall be rounded off to the nearest .1 of a mile a gallon. The Administrator shall decide on the quantity of other fuel that is equivalent to one gallon of gasoline. To the extent practicable, fuel economy tests shall be carried out with emissions tests under section 206 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7525).
  (d) T4Effective Date of Procedure or AmendmentK.–The Administrator shall prescribe a procedure under this section, or an amendment (except a technical or clerical amendment) in a procedure, at least 12 months before the beginning of the model year to which the procedure or amendment applies.
  (e) T4Reports and ConsultationK.–The Administrator shall report measurements and calculations under this section to the Secretary of Transportation and shall consult and coordinate with the Secretary in carrying out this section.
