  (a) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section–
    (1) ””automobile““ includes an automobile rated at not more than 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight regardless of whether the Secretary of Transportation has applied this chapter to the automobile under section 32901(a)(3)(B) of this title.
    (2) ””dealer““ means a person residing or located in a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States, and engaged in the sale or distribution of new automobiles to the first person (except a dealer buying as a dealer) that buys the automobile in good faith other than for resale.
  (b) T4Labeling Requirements and ContentsK.–(1) Under regulations of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, a manufacturer of automobiles shall attach a label to a prominent place on each automobile manufactured in a model year. The dealer shall maintain the label on the automobile. The label shall contain the following information:
    (A) the fuel economy of the automobile.
    (B) the estimated annual fuel cost of operating the automobile.
    (C) the range of fuel economy of comparable automobiles of all manufacturers.
    (D) a statement that a booklet is available from the dealer to assist in making a comparison of fuel economy of other automobiles manufactured by all manufacturers in that model year.
    (E) the amount of the automobile fuel efficiency tax imposed on the sale of the automobile under section 4064 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 4064).
    (F) other information required or authorized by the Administrator that is related to the information required by clauses (A)–(D) of this paragraph.
  (2) The Administrator may allow a manufacturer to comply with this subsection by–
    (A) disclosing the information on the label required under section 3 of the Automobile Information Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 1232); and
    (B) including the statement required by paragraph (1)(E) of this subsection at a time and in a way that takes into account special circumstances or characteristics.
  (3) For dedicated automobiles manufactured after model year 1992, the fuel economy of those automobiles under paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection is the fuel economy for those automobiles when operated on alternative fuel, measured under section 32905(a) or (c) of this title, multiplied by .15. Each label required under paragraph (1) of this subsection for dual fueled automobiles shall–
    (A) indicate the fuel economy of the automobile when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel;
    (B) clearly identify the automobile as a dual fueled automobile;
    (C) clearly identify the fuels on which the automobile may be operated; and
    (D) contain a statement informing the consumer that the additional information required by subsection (c)(2) of this section is published and distributed by the Secretary of Energy.
  (c) T4Fuel Economy Information BookletK.–(1) The Administrator shall prepare the booklet referred to in subsection (b)(1)(D) of this section. The booklet–
    (A) shall be simple and readily understandable;
    (B) shall contain information on fuel economy and estimated annual fuel costs of operating automobiles manufactured in each model year; and
    (C) may contain information on geographical or other differences in estimated annual fuel costs.
  (2)    (A) For dual fueled automobiles manufactured after model year 1992, the booklet published under paragraph (1) shall contain additional information on–
      (i) the energy efficiency and cost of operation of those automobiles when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel as compared to those automobiles when operated on alternative fuel; and
      (ii) the driving range of those automobiles when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel as compared to those automobiles when operated on alternative fuel.
    (B) For dual fueled automobiles, the booklet published under paragraph (1) also shall contain–
      (i) information on the miles a gallon achieved by the automobiles when operated on alternative fuel; and
      (ii) a statement explaining how the information made available under this paragraph can be expected to change when the automobile is operated on mixtures of alternative fuel and gasoline or diesel fuel.
  (3) The Secretary of Energy shall publish and distribute the booklet. The Administrator shall prescribe regulations requiring dealers to make the booklet available to prospective buyers.
  (d) T4DisclosureK.–A disclosure about fuel economy or estimated annual fuel costs under this section does not establish a warranty under a law of the United States or a State.
  (e) T4ViolationsK.–A violation of subsection (b) of this section is–
    (1) a violation of section 3 of the Automobile Information Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 1232); and
    (2) an unfair or deceptive act or practice in or affecting commerce under the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), except sections 5(m) and 18 (15 U.S.C. 45(m), 57a).
  (f) T4ConsultationK.–The Administrator shall consult with the Federal Trade Commission and the Secretaries of Transportation and Energy in carrying out this section.
  (g) T4Consumer Information.–
    (1) T4ProgramK.–The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall develop and implement by rule a program to require manufacturers–
      (A) to label new automobiles sold in the United States with–
        (i) information reflecting an automobile“s performance on the basis of criteria that the Administrator shall develop, not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act, to reflect fuel economy and greenhouse gas and other emissions over the useful life of the automobile;
        (ii) a rating system that would make it easy for consumers to compare the fuel economy and greenhouse gas and other emissions of automobiles at the point of purchase, including a designation of automobiles–
          (I) with the lowest greenhouse gas emissions over the useful life of the vehicles; and
          (II) the highest fuel economy; and
        (iii) a permanent and prominent display that an automobile is capable of operating on an alternative fuel; and
      (B) to include in the owner“s manual for vehicles capable of operating on alternative fuels information that describes that capability and the benefits of using alternative fuels, including the renewable nature and environmental benefits of using alternative fuels.
    (2) T4Consumer education.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall develop and implement by rule a consumer education program to improve consumer understanding of automobile performance described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) and to inform consumers of the benefits of using alternative fuel in automobiles and the location of stations with alternative fuel capacity.
      (B) T4Fuel savings education campaignK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall establish a consumer education campaign on the fuel savings that would be recognized from the purchase of vehicles equipped with thermal management technologies, including energy efficient air conditioning systems and glass.
    (3) T4Fuel tank labels for alternative fuel automobilesK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall by rule require a label to be attached to the fuel compartment of vehicles capable of operating on alternative fuels, with the form of alternative fuel stated on the label. A label attached in compliance with the requirements of section 32905(h) \1\N is deemed to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
    (4) T4Rulemaking deadlineK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall issue a final rule under this subsection not later than 42 months after the date of the enactment of the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act.
