  (a) T4Dedicated AutomobilesK.–Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section or section 32904(a)(2) of this title, for any model of dedicated automobile manufactured by a manufacturer after model year 1992, the fuel economy measured for that model shall be based on the fuel content of the alternative fuel used to operate the automobile. A gallon of a liquid alternative fuel used to operate a dedicated automobile is deemed to contain .15 gallon of fuel.
  (b) T4Dual Fueled AutomobilesK.–Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section or section 32904(a)(2) of this title, for any model of dual fueled automobile manufactured by a manufacturer in model years 1993–2010, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall measure the fuel economy for that model by dividing 1.0 by the sum of–
    (1) .5 divided by the fuel economy measured under section 32904(c) of this title when operating the model on gasoline or diesel fuel; and
    (2) .5 divided by the fuel economy measured under subsection (a) of this section when operating the model on alternative fuel.
  (c) T4Gaseous Fuel Dedicated AutomobilesK.–For any model of gaseous fuel dedicated automobile manufactured by a manufacturer after model year 1992, the Administrator shall measure the fuel economy for that model based on the fuel content of the gaseous fuel used to operate the automobile. One hundred cubic feet of natural gas is deemed to contain .823 gallon equivalent of natural gas. The Secretary of Transportation shall determine the appropriate gallon equivalent of other gaseous fuels. A gallon equivalent of gaseous fuel is deemed to have a fuel content of .15 gallon of fuel.
  (d) T4Gaseous Fuel Dual Fueled AutomobilesK.–For any model of gaseous fuel dual fueled automobile manufactured by a manufacturer in model years 1993–2010, the Administrator shall measure the fuel economy for that model by dividing 1.0 by the sum of–
    (1) .5 divided by the fuel economy measured under section 32904(c) of this title when operating the model on gasoline or diesel fuel; and
    (2) .5 divided by the fuel economy measured under subsection (c) of this section when operating the model on gaseous fuel.
  (e) T4Fuel Economy CalculationsK.–The Administrator shall calculate the manufacturer“s average fuel economy under section 32904(a)(1) of this title for each model described under subsections (a)–(d) of this section by using as the denominator the fuel economy measured for each model under subsections (a)–(d).
  (f) T4Extending Application of SubsectionsK (b) T4andK (d).–Not later than December 31, 2007, the Secretary of Transportation shall–
    (1) extend by regulation the application of subsections (b) and (d) of this section for not more than 4 consecutive model years immediately after model year 2010 and explain the basis on which the extension is granted; or
    (2) publish a notice explaining the reasons for not extending the application of subsections (b) and (d) of this section.
  (g) T4Study and ReportK.–Not later than September 30, 2000, the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator, shall complete a study of the success of the policy of subsections (b) and (d) of this title, and submit to the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the study, including preliminary conclusions on whether the application of subsections (b) and (d) should be extended for up to 4 more model years. The study and conclusions shall consider–
    (1) the availability to the public of alternative fueled automobiles and alternative fuel;
    (2) energy conservation and security;
    (3) environmental considerations; and
    (4) other relevant factors.
  (h) T4Fuel Economy Incentive RequirementsK.–In order for any model of dual fueled automobile to be eligible to receive the fuel economy incentives included in section 32906(a) and (b), a label shall be attached to the fuel compartment of each dual fueled automobile of that model, notifying that the vehicle can be operated on an alternative fuel and on gasoline or diesel, with the form of alternative fuel stated on the notice. This requirement applies to dual fueled automobiles manufactured on or after September 1, 2006.
