  (a) T4General Authority and LimitationsK.–The Secretary of Transportation may compromise or remit the amount of a civil penalty imposed under section 32912(a) or (b) of this title. However, the amount of a penalty imposed under section 32912(b) may be compromised or remitted only to the extent–
    (1) necessary to prevent the insolvency or bankruptcy of the manufacturer of automobiles;
    (2) the manufacturer shows that the violation was caused by an act of God, a strike, or a fire; or
    (3) the Federal Trade Commission certifies under subsection (b)(1) of this section that a reduction in the penalty is necessary to prevent a substantial lessening of competition.
  (b) T4Certification by CommissionK.–(1) A manufacturer liable for a civil penalty under section 32912(b) of this title may apply to the Commission for a certification that a reduction in the penalty is necessary to prevent a substantial lessening of competition in the segment of the motor vehicle industry subject to the standard that was violated. The Commission shall make the certification when it finds that reduction is necessary to prevent the lessening. The Commission shall state in the certification the maximum amount by which the penalty may be reduced.
  (2) An application under this subsection must be made not later than 30 days after the Secretary decides that the manufacturer has violated section 32911(b) of this title. To the maximum extent practicable, the Commission shall make a decision on an application by the 90th day after the application is filed. A proceeding under this subsection may not delay the manufacturer“s liability for the penalty for more than 90 days after the application is filed.
  (3) When a civil penalty is collected in a civil action under this chapter before a decision of the Commission under this subsection is final, the payment shall be paid to the court in which the action was brought. The court shall deposit the payment in the general fund of the Treasury on the 90th day after the decision of the Commission becomes final. When the court is holding payment of a penalty reduced under subsection (a)(3) of this section, the Secretary shall direct the court to remit the appropriate amount of the penalty to the manufacturer.
