  (a) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section–
    (1) ””anti-theft device““ means a device to reduce or deter theft that–
      (A) is in addition to the theft-deterrent devices required by motor vehicle safety standard numbered 114 in section 571.114 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations;
      (B) the manufacturer believes will be effective in reducing or deterring theft of motor vehicles; and
      (C) does not use a signaling device reserved by State law for use on police, emergency, or official vehicles, or on schoolbuses.
    (2) ””standard equipment““ means equipment already installed in a motor vehicle when it is delivered from the manufacturer and not an accessory or other item that the first purchaser customarily has the option to have installed.
  (b) T4Granting Exemptions and LimitationsK.–(1) A manufacturer may petition the Secretary of Transportation for an exemption from a requirement of a standard prescribed under section 33102 or 33103 of this title for a line of passenger motor vehicles equipped as standard equipment with an anti-theft device that the Secretary decides is likely to be as effective in reducing and deterring motor vehicle theft as compliance with the standard.
  (2) The Secretary may grant an exemption–
    (A) for model year 1987, for not more than 2 lines of a manufacturer;
    (B) for each of the model years 1988–1996, for not more than 2 additional lines of a manufacturer;
    (C) for each of the model years 1997–2000, for not more than one additional line of a manufacturer; and
    (D) for each of the model years after model year 2000, for the number of lines that the Attorney General decides under section 33103(d)(3) of this title.
  (3) An additional exemption granted under paragraph (2)(B) or (C) of this subsection does not affect an exemption previously granted.
  (c) T4Petitioning ProcedureK.–A petition must be filed not later than 8 months before the start of production for the first model year covered by the petition. The petition must include–
    (1) a detailed description of the device;
    (2) the reasons for the manufacturer“s conclusion that the device will be effective in reducing and deterring theft of motor vehicles; and
    (3) additional information the Secretary reasonably may require to make the decision described in subsection (b)(1) of this section.
  (d) T4Decisions and ApprovalsK.–The Secretary shall make a decision about a petition filed under this section not later than 120 days after the date the petition is filed. A decision approving a petition must be based on substantial evidence. The Secretary may approve a petition in whole or in part. If the Secretary does not make a decision within the 120-day period, the petition shall be deemed to be approved and the manufacturer shall be exempt from the standard for the line covered by the petition for the subsequent model year.
  (e) T4RescissionsK.–The Secretary may rescind an exemption if the Secretary decides that the anti-theft device has not been as effective in reducing and deterring motor vehicle theft as compliance with the standard. A rescission may be effective only–
    (1) for a model year after the model year in which the rescission occurs; and
    (2) at least 6 months after the manufacturer receives written notice of the rescission from the Secretary.
