  (a) T4Designation, Nonapplication, Selection, and ProceduresK.–(1) For purposes of the standard under section 33102 of this title, the following are high theft lines:
    (A) a passenger motor vehicle line determined under subsection (b) of this section to have had a new passenger motor vehicle theft rate in the 2-year period covering calendar years 1990 and 1991 greater than the median theft rate for all new passenger motor vehicle thefts in that 2-year period.
    (B) a passenger motor vehicle line initially introduced into commerce in the United States after December 31, 1989, that is selected under paragraph (3) of this subsection as likely to have a theft rate greater than the median theft rate referred to in clause (A) of this paragraph.
    (C) subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, a passenger motor vehicle line having (for existing lines) or likely to have (for new lines) a theft rate below the median theft rate referred to in clause (A) of this paragraph, if the major parts in the vehicles are selected under paragraph (3) of this subsection as interchangeable with the majority of the major parts that are subject to the standard and are contained in the motor vehicles of a line described in clause (A) or (B) of this paragraph.
  (2) The standard may not apply to any major part of a line described in paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection if all the passenger motor vehicles of lines that are, or are likely to be, below the median theft rate, and that contain parts interchangeable with the major parts of the line involved, account (for existing lines), or the Secretary of Transportation determines they are likely to account (for new lines), for more than 90 percent of the total annual production of all lines of that manufacturer containing those interchangeable parts.
  (3) The lines, and the major parts of the passenger motor vehicles in those lines, that are to be subject to the standard may be selected by agreement between the manufacturer and the Secretary. If the manufacturer and the Secretary disagree on the selection, the Secretary shall select the lines and parts, after notice to the manufacturer and opportunity for written comment, and subject to the confidentiality requirements of this chapter.
  (4) To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall prescribe reasonable procedures designed to ensure that a selection under paragraph (3) of this subsection is made at least 6 months before the first applicable model year beginning after the selection.
  (5) A manufacturer may not be required to comply with the standard under a selection under paragraph (3) of this subsection for a model year beginning earlier than 6 months after the date of the selection.
  (6) A passenger motor vehicle line subject on October 25, 1992, to parts marking requirements under sections 602 and 603 of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (Public Law 92–513, 86 Stat. 947), as added by section 101(a) of the Motor Vehicle Theft Law Enforcement Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–547, 98 Stat. 2756), continues to be subject to the requirements of this section and section 33102 of this title unless the line is exempted under section 33106 of this title.
  (b) T4Determining Theft Rate for Passenger VehiclesK.–(1) In this subsection, ””new passenger motor vehicle thefts““, when used in reference to a calendar year, means thefts in the United States in that year of passenger motor vehicles with the same model-year designation as that calendar year.
  (2) Under subsection (a) of this section, the theft rate for passenger motor vehicles of a line shall be determined by a fraction–
    (A) the numerator of which is the number of new passenger motor vehicle thefts for that line during the 2-year period referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A) of this section; and
    (B) the denominator of which is the sum of the respective production volumes of all passenger motor vehicles of that line (as reported to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under chapter 329 of this title) that are of model years 1990 and 1991 and are distributed for sale in commerce in the United States.
  (3) Under subsection (a) of this section, the median theft rate for all new passenger motor vehicle thefts during that 2-year period is the theft rate midway between the highest and the lowest theft rates determined under paragraph (2) of this subsection. If there is an even number of theft rates determined under paragraph (2), the median theft rate is the arithmetic average of the 2 adjoining theft rates midway between the highest and the lowest of those theft rates.
  (4) In consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secretary periodically shall obtain from the most reliable source accurate and timely theft and recovery information and publish the information for review and comment. To the greatest extent possible, the Secretary shall use theft information reported by United States Government, State, and local police. After publication and opportunity for comment, the Secretary shall use the theft information to determine the median theft rate under this subsection. The Secretary and the Director shall take any necessary actions to improve the accuracy, reliability, and timeliness of the information, including ensuring that vehicles represented as stolen are really stolen.
  (5) The Secretary periodically (but not more often than once every 2 years) may redetermine and prescribe by regulation the median theft rate under this subsection.
  (c) T4Providing InformationK.–The Secretary by regulation shall require each manufacturer to provide information necessary to select under subsection (a)(3) of this section the high theft lines and the major parts to be subject to the standard.
  (d) T4ApplicationK.–Except as provided in section 33106 of this title, the Secretary may not make the standard inapplicable to a line that has been subject to the standard.
