  (a) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section, the following definitions apply:
    (1) T4Airport, commercial service airport, and public agencyK.–The terms ””airport““, ””commercial service airport““, and ””public agency““ have the meaning those terms have under section 47102.
    (2) T4Eligible agencyK.–The term ””eligible agency““ means a public agency that controls a commercial service airport.
    (3) T4Eligible airport-related projectK.–The term ””eligible airport-related project““ means any of the following projects:
      (A) A project for airport development or airport planning under subchapter I of chapter 471.
      (B) A project for terminal development described in section 47110(d).
      (C) for \1\N costs of terminal development referred to in subparagraph (B) incurred after August 1, 1986, at an airport that did not have more than .25 percent of the total annual passenger boardings in the United States in the most recent calendar year for which data is available and at which total passenger boardings declined by at least 16 percent between calendar year 1989 and calendar year 1997; \2\N
      (D) A project for airport noise capability planning under section 47505.
      (E) A project to carry out noise compatibility measures eligible for assistance under section 47504, whether or not a program for those measures has been approved under section 47504.
      (F) A project for constructing gates and related areas at which passengers board or exit aircraft. In the case of a project required to enable additional air service by an air carrier with less than 50 percent of the annual passenger boardings at an airport, the project for constructing gates and related areas may include structural foundations and floor systems, exterior building walls and load-bearing interior columns or walls, windows, door and roof systems, building utilities (including heating, air conditioning, ventilation, plumbing, and electrical service), and aircraft fueling facilities adjacent to the gate.
    (4) T4Passenger facility feeK.–The term ””passenger facility fee““ means a fee imposed under this section.
    (5) T4Passenger facility revenueK.–The term ””passenger facility revenue““ means revenue derived from a passenger facility fee.
  (b) T4General AuthorityK.–(1) The Secretary of Transportation may authorize under this section an eligible agency to impose a passenger facility fee of $1, $2, or $3 on each paying passenger of an air carrier or foreign air carrier boarding an aircraft at an airport the agency controls to finance an eligible airport-related project, including making payments for debt service on indebtedness incurred to carry out the project, to be carried out in connection with the airport or any other airport the agency controls.
  (2) A State, political subdivision of a State, or authority of a State or political subdivision that is not the eligible agency may not regulate or prohibit the imposition or collection of a passenger facility fee or the use of the passenger facility revenue.
  (3) A passenger facility fee may be imposed on a passenger of an air carrier or foreign air carrier originating or connecting at the commercial service airport that the agency controls.
  (4) In lieu of authorizing a fee under paragraph (1), the Secretary may authorize under this section an eligible agency to impose a passenger facility fee of $4.00 or $4.50 on each paying passenger of an air carrier or foreign air carrier boarding an aircraft at an airport the agency controls to finance an eligible airport-related project, including making payments for debt service on indebtedness incurred to carry out the project, if the Secretary finds–
    (A) in the case of an airport that has more than .25 percent of the total number of annual boardings in the United States, that the project will make a significant contribution to improving air safety and security, increasing competition among air carriers, reducing current or anticipated congestion, or reducing the impact of aviation noise on people living near the airport; and
    (B) that the project cannot be paid for from funds reasonably expected to be available for the programs referred to in section 48103.
  (c) T4ApplicationsK.–(1) An eligible agency must submit to the Secretary an application for authority to impose a passenger facility fee. The application shall contain information and be in the form that the Secretary may require by regulation.
  (2) Before submitting an application, the eligible agency must provide reasonable notice to, and an opportunity for consultation with, air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport. The Secretary shall prescribe regulations that define reasonable notice and contain at least the following requirements:
    (A) The agency must provide written notice of individual projects being considered for financing by a passenger facility fee and the date and location of a meeting to present the projects to air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport.
    (B) Not later than 30 days after written notice is provided under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, each air carrier and foreign air carrier operating at the airport must provide to the agency written notice of receipt of the notice. Failure of a carrier to provide the notice may be deemed certification of agreement with the project by the carrier under subparagraph (D) of this paragraph.
    (C) Not later than 45 days after written notice is provided under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the agency must conduct a meeting to provide air carriers and foreign air carriers with descriptions of projects and justifications and a detailed financial plan for projects.
    (D) Not later than 30 days after the meeting, each air carrier and foreign air carrier must provide to the agency certification of agreement or disagreement with projects (or total plan for the projects). Failure to provide the certification is deemed certification of agreement with the project by the carrier. A certification of disagreement is void if it does not contain the reasons for the disagreement.
  (3) After receiving an application, the Secretary shall provide notice and an opportunity to air carriers, foreign air carriers, and other interested persons to comment on the application. The Secretary shall make a final decision on the application not later than 120 days after receiving it.
  (d) T4Limitations on Approving ApplicationsK.–The Secretary may approve an application that an eligible agency has submitted under subsection (c) of this section to finance a specific project only if the Secretary finds, based on the application, that–
    (1) the amount and duration of the proposed passenger facility fee will result in revenue (including interest and other returns on the revenue) that is not more than the amount necessary to finance the specific project;
    (2) each project is an eligible airport-related project that will–
      (A) preserve or enhance capacity, safety, or security of the national air transportation system;
      (B) reduce noise resulting from an airport that is part of the system; or
      (C) provide an opportunity for enhanced competition between or among air carriers and foreign air carriers;
    (3) the application includes adequate justification for each of the specific projects; and
    (4) in the case of an application to impose a fee of more than $3.00 for an eligible surface transportation or terminal project, the agency has made adequate provision for financing the airside needs of the airport, including runways, taxiways, aprons, and aircraft gates.
  (e) T4Limitations on Imposing FeesK.–(1) An eligible agency may impose a passenger facility fee only–
    (A) if the Secretary approves an application that the agency has submitted under subsection (c) of this section; and
    (B) subject to terms the Secretary may prescribe to carry out the objectives of this section.
  (2) A passenger facility fee may not be collected from a passenger–
    (A) for more than 2 boardings on a one-way trip or a trip in each direction of a round trip;
    (B) for the boarding to an eligible place under subchapter II of chapter 417 of this title for which essential air service compensation is paid under subchapter II;
    (C) enplaning at an airport if the passenger did not pay for the air transportation which resulted in such enplanement, including any case in which the passenger obtained the ticket for the air transportation with a frequent flier award coupon without monetary payment.\3\N
    (D) on flights, including flight segments, between 2 or more points in Hawaii; and
    (E) in Alaska aboard an aircraft having a seating capacity of less than 60 passengers.
  (f) T4Limitations on Contracts, Leases, and Use AgreementsK.–(1) A contract between an air carrier or foreign air carrier and an eligible agency made at any time may not impair the authority of the agency to impose a passenger facility fee or to use the passenger facility revenue as provided in this section.
  (2) A project financed with a passenger facility fee may not be subject to an exclusive long-term lease or use agreement of an air carrier or foreign air carrier, as defined by regulations of the Secretary.
  (3) A lease or use agreement of an air carrier or foreign air carrier related to a project whose construction or expansion was financed with a passenger facility fee may not restrict the eligible agency from financing, developing, or assigning new capacity at the airport with passenger facility revenue.
  (g) T4Treatment of RevenueK.–(1) Passenger facility revenue is not airport revenue for purposes of establishing a price under a contract between an eligible agency and an air carrier or foreign air carrier.
  (2) An eligible agency may not include in its price base the part of the capital costs of a project paid for by using passenger facility revenue to establish a price under a contract between the agency and an air carrier or foreign air carrier.
  (3) For a project for terminal development, gates and related areas, or a facility occupied or used by at least one air carrier or foreign air carrier on an exclusive or preferential basis, a price payable by an air carrier or foreign air carrier using the facilities must at least equal the price paid by an air carrier or foreign air carrier using a similar facility at the airport that was not financed with passenger facility revenue.
  (4) Passenger facility revenues that are held by an air carrier or an agent of the carrier after collection of a passenger facility fee constitute a trust fund that is held by the air carrier or agent for the beneficial interest of the eligible agency imposing the fee. Such carrier or agent holds neither legal nor equitable interest in the passenger facility revenues except for any handling fee or retention of interest collected on unremitted proceeds as may be allowed by the Secretary.
  (h) T4ComplianceK.–(1) As necessary to ensure compliance with this section, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations requiring recordkeeping and auditing of accounts maintained by an air carrier or foreign air carrier and its agent collecting a passenger facility fee and by the eligible agency imposing the fee.
  (2) The Secretary periodically shall audit and review the use by an eligible agency of passenger facility revenue. After review and a public hearing, the Secretary may end any part of the authority of the agency to impose a passenger facility fee to the extent the Secretary decides that the revenue is not being used as provided in this section.
  (3) The Secretary may set off amounts necessary to ensure compliance with this section against amounts otherwise payable to an eligible agency under subchapter I of chapter 471 of this title if the Secretary decides a passenger facility fee is excessive or that passenger facility revenue is not being used as provided in this section.
    (i) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary shall prescribe regulations necessary to carry out this section. The regulations–
      (1) may prescribe the time and form by which a passenger facility fee takes effect;
      (2) shall–
        (A) require an air carrier or foreign air carrier and its agent to collect a passenger facility fee that an eligible agency imposes under this section;
        (B) establish procedures for handling and remitting money collected;
        (C) ensure that the money, less a uniform amount the Secretary determines reflects the average necessary and reasonable expenses (net of interest accruing to the carrier and agent after collection and before remittance) incurred in collecting and handling the fee, is paid promptly to the eligible agency for which they are collected; and
        (D) require that the amount collected for any air transportation be noted on the ticket for that air transportation; and
      (3) may permit an eligible agency to request that collection of a passenger facility fee be waived for–
        (A) passengers enplaned by any class of air carrier or foreign air carrier if the number of passengers enplaned by the carriers in the class constitutes not more than one percent of the total number of passengers enplaned annually at the airport at which the fee is imposed; or
        (B) passengers enplaned on a flight to an airport–
          (i) that has fewer than 2,500 passenger boardings each year and receives scheduled passenger service; or
          (ii) in a community which has a population of less than 10,000 and is not connected by a land highway or vehicular way to the land-connected National Highway System within a State.
    (j) T4Limitation on Certain ActionsK.–A State, political subdivision of a State, or authority of a State or political subdivision that is not the eligible agency may not tax, regulate, or prohibit or otherwise attempt to control in any manner, the imposition or collection of a passenger facility fee or the use of the revenue from the passenger facility fee.
    (k) T4Competition Plans.–
      (1) T4In generalK.–Beginning in fiscal year 2001, no eligible agency may impose a passenger facility fee under this section with respect to a covered airport (as such term is defined in section 47106(f)) unless the agency has submitted to the Secretary a written competition plan in accordance with such section. This subsection does not apply to passenger facility fees in effect before the date of the enactment of this subsection.
      (2) T4Secretary shall ensure implementation and complianceK.–The Secretary shall review any plan submitted under paragraph (1) to ensure that it meets the requirements of this section, and shall review its implementation from time-to-time to ensure that each covered airport successfully implements its plan.
