   In this subchapter, the following definitions apply:
  (1) T4Air carrierK.–The term ””air carrier““ means any air carrier holding a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the Secretary of Transportation under section 41102.
  (2) T4Aircraft purchaseK.–The term ””aircraft purchase““ means the purchase of commercial transport aircraft, including spare parts normally associated with the aircraft.
  (3) T4Capital reserve subsidy amountK.–The term ””capital reserve subsidy amount““ means the amount of budget authority sufficient to cover estimated long-term cost to the United States Government of a Federal credit instrument, calculated on a net present value basis, excluding administrative costs and any incidental effects on Government receipts or outlays in accordance with provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
  (4) T4Commuter air carrierK.–The term ””commuter air carrier““ means an air carrier that primarily operates aircraft designed to have a maximum passenger seating capacity of 75 or less in accordance with published flight schedules.
  (5) T4Federal credit instrumentK.–The term ””Federal credit instrument““ means a secured loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit authorized to be made under this subchapter.
  (6) T4Financial obligationK.–The term ””financial obligation““ means any note, bond, debenture, or other debt obligation issued by an obligor in connection with the financing of an aircraft purchase, other than a Federal credit instrument.
  (7) T4LenderK.–The term ””lender““ means any non-Federal qualified institutional buyer (as defined by section 230.144A(a) of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation) known as Rule 144A(a) of the Security and Exchange Commission and issued under the Security Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.)), including–
    (A) a qualified retirement plan (as defined in section 4974(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that is a qualified institutional buyer; and
    (B) a governmental plan (as defined in section 414(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that is a qualified institutional buyer.
  (8) T4Line of creditK.–The term ””line of credit““ means an agreement entered into by the Secretary with an obligor under section 41763(d) to provide a direct loan at a future date upon the occurrence of certain events.
  (9) T4Loan guaranteeK.–The term ””loan guarantee““ means any guarantee or other pledge by the Secretary under section 41763(c) to pay all or part of any of the principal of and interest on a loan or other debt obligation issued by an obligor and funded by a lender.
  (10) T4New entrant air carrierK.–The term ””new entrant air carrier““ means an air carrier that has been providing air transportation according to a published schedule for less than 5 years, including any person that has received authority from the Secretary to provide air transportation but is not providing air transportation.
  (11) T4ObligorK.–The term ””obligor““ means a party primarily liable for payment of the principal of or interest on a Federal credit instrument, which party may be a corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality.
  (12) T4Regional jet aircraftK.–The term ””regional jet aircraft““ means a civil aircraft–
    (A) powered by jet propulsion; and
    (B) designed to have a maximum passenger seating capacity of not less than 30 nor more than 75.
  (13) T4Secured loanK.–The term ””secured loan““ means a direct loan funded by the Secretary in connection with the financing of an aircraft purchase under section 41763(b).
  (14) T4Underserved marketK.–The term ””underserved market““ means a passenger air transportation market (as defined by the Secretary) that–
    (A) is served (as determined by the Secretary) by a nonhub airport or a small hub airport;
    (B) is not within a 40-mile radius of an airport that each year has at least .25 percent of the total annual boardings in the United States; and
    (C) the Secretary determines does not have sufficient air service.
