  (a) T4RequirementK.–Except as provided in section 41906 of this title and section 5402 of title 39, an air carrier may transport mail by aircraft in foreign air transportation only under a schedule designated or required to be established under subsection (c) of this section for the transportation of mail.
  (b) T4Statements on Places and SchedulesK.–Every air carrier shall file with the Secretary of Transportation and the United States Postal Service a statement showing–
    (1) the places between which the carrier is authorized to provide foreign air transportation;
    (2) every schedule of aircraft regularly operated by the carrier between places described in clause (1) of this subsection and every change in each schedule; and
    (3) for each schedule, the places served by the carrier and the time of arrival at, and departure from, each place.
  (c) T4Designating and Additional SchedulesK.–The Postal Service may–
    (1) designate any schedule of an air carrier filed under subsection (b)(3) of this section for the transportation of mail between the places between which the carrier is authorized by its certificate to transport mail; and
    (2) require the carrier to establish additional schedules for the transportation of mail between those places.
  (d) T4Changing SchedulesK.–A schedule designated or required to be established for the transportation of mail under subsection (c) of this section may be changed only after 10 days“ notice of the change is filed as provided in subsection (b)(3) of this section. The Postal Service may disapprove a proposed change in a schedule or amend or modify the schedule or proposed change.
  (e) T4OrdersK.–An order of the Postal Service under this section may become effective only after 10 days after the order is issued. A person adversely affected by the order may appeal the order to the Secretary before the end of the 10-day period under regulations the Secretary prescribes. If the public convenience and necessity require, the Secretary may amend, modify, suspend, or cancel the order. Pending a decision about the order, the Secretary may postpone the effective date of the order.
  (f) T4Proceedings PreferencesK.–The Secretary shall give preference to a proceeding under this section over all other proceedings before the Secretary under this subpart.
