  (a) T4ApplicationK.–This section applies only to aircraft not used to provide air transportation.
  (b) T4Authority To Make ModificationsK.–The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall make modifications in the system for registering and recording aircraft necessary to make the system more effective in serving the needs of–
    (1) buyers and sellers of aircraft;
    (2) officials responsible for enforcing laws related to the regulation of controlled substances (as defined in section 102 of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 802)); and
    (3) other users of the system.
  (c) T4Nature of ModificationsK.–Modifications made under subsection (b) of this section–
    (1) may include a system of titling aircraft or registering all aircraft, even aircraft not operated;
    (2) shall ensure positive, verifiable, and timely identification of the true owner; and
    (3) shall address at least each of the following deficiencies in and abuses of the existing system:
      (A) the registration of aircraft to fictitious persons.
      (B) the use of false or nonexistent addresses by persons registering aircraft.
      (C) the use by a person registering an aircraft of a post office box or ””mail drop““ as a return address to evade identification of the person“s address.
      (D) the registration of aircraft to entities established to facilitate unlawful activities.
      (E) the submission of names of individuals on applications for registration of aircraft that are not identifiable.
      (F) the ability to make frequent legal changes in the registration markings assigned to aircraft.
      (G) the use of false registration markings on aircraft.
      (H) the illegal use of ””reserved““ registration markings on aircraft.
      (I) the large number of aircraft classified as being in ””self-reported status““.
      (J) the lack of a system to ensure timely and adequate notice of the transfer of ownership of aircraft.
      (K) the practice of allowing temporary operation and navigation of aircraft without the issuance of a certificate of registration.
  (d) T4RegulationsK.–(1) The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section and provide a written explanation of how the regulations address each of the deficiencies and abuses described in subsection (c) of this section. In prescribing the regulations, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall consult with the Administrator of Drug Enforcement, the Commissioner of Customs, other law enforcement officials of the United States Government, representatives of State and local law enforcement officials, representatives of the general aviation aircraft industry, representatives of users of general aviation aircraft, and other interested persons.
  (2) Regulations prescribed under this subsection shall require that–
    (A) each individual listed in an application for registration of an aircraft provide with the application the individual“s driver“s license number; and
    (B) each person (not an individual) listed in an application for registration of an aircraft provide with the application the person“s taxpayer identifying number.
