  (a) T4General AuthorityK.–The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may make grants to institutions of higher education to establish and operate regional centers of air transportation excellence. The locations shall be distributed in a geographically fair way.
  (b) T4ResponsibilitiesK.–(1) The responsibilities of each center established under this section shall include–
    (A) conducting research on–
      (i) airspace and airport planning and design;
      (ii) airport capacity enhancement techniques;
      (iii) human performance in the air transportation environment;
      (iv) aviation safety and security;
      (v) the supply of trained air transportation personnel, including pilots and mechanics; and
      (vi) other aviation issues related to developing and maintaining a safe and efficient air transportation system; and
    (B) interpreting, publishing, and disseminating the results of the research.
  (2) In conducting research described in paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection, each center may make contracts with nonprofit research organizations and other appropriate persons.
  (c) T4ApplicationsK.–An institution of higher education interested in receiving a grant under this section may submit an application to the Administrator. The application must be in the form and contain the information that the Administrator requires by regulation.
  (d) T4Selection CriteriaK.–The Administrator shall select recipients of grants under this section on the basis of the following criteria:
    (1) the extent to which the needs of the State in which the applicant is located are representative of the needs of the region for improved air transportation services and facilities.
    (2) the demonstrated research and extension resources available to the applicant to carry out this section.
    (3) the ability of the applicant to provide leadership in making national and regional contributions to the solution of both long-range and immediate air transportation problems.
    (4) the extent to which the applicant has an established air transportation program.
    (5) the demonstrated ability of the applicant to disseminate results of air transportation research and educational programs through a statewide or regionwide continuing education program.
    (6) the projects the applicant proposes to carry out under the grant.
  (e) T4Expenditure AgreementsK.–A grant may be made under this section in a fiscal year only if the recipient makes an agreement with the Administrator that the Administrator requires to ensure that the recipient will maintain its total expenditures from all other sources for establishing and operating the center and related research activities at a level at least equal to the average level of those expenditures in the 2 fiscal years of the recipient occurring immediately before November 5, 1990.
  (f) T4Government“s Share of CostsK.–The United States Government“s share of a grant under this section is 50 percent of the costs of establishing and operating the center and related research activities that the grant recipient carries out.
  (g) T4Allocating AmountsK.–The Administrator shall allocate amounts made available to carry out this section in a geographically fair way.
