  (a) T4Air Carrier RequirementsK.–(1) Not later than March 16, 1991, the Secretary of Transportation shall require each air carrier to provide a passenger manifest for a flight to an appropriate representative of the Secretary of State–
    (A) not later than one hour after that carrier is notified of an aviation disaster outside the United States involving that flight; or
    (B) if it is not technologically feasible or reasonable to comply with clause (A) of this paragraph, then as expeditiously as possible, but not later than 3 hours after the carrier is so notified.
  (2) The passenger manifest should include the following information:
    (A) the full name of each passenger.
    (B) the passport number of each passenger, if required for travel.
    (C) the name and telephone number of a contact for each passenger.
  (3) In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary of Transportation shall consider the necessity and feasibility of requiring air carriers to collect passenger manifest information as a condition for passengers boarding a flight of the carrier.
  (b) T4Foreign Air Carrier RequirementsK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall consider imposing a requirement on foreign air carriers comparable to that imposed on air carriers under subsection (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
  (c) T4Flights in Foreign Air Transportation to the United States.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, each air carrier and foreign air carrier operating a passenger flight in foreign air transportation to the United States shall provide to the Commissioner of Customs by electronic transmission a passenger and crew manifest containing the information specified in paragraph (2). Carriers may use the advanced passenger information system established under section 431 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1431) to provide the information required by the preceding sentence.
    (2) T4InformationK.–A passenger and crew manifest for a flight required under paragraph (1) shall contain the following information:
      (A) The full name of each passenger and crew member.
      (B) The date of birth and citizenship of each passenger and crew member.
      (C) The sex of each passenger and crew member.
      (D) The passport number and country of issuance of each passenger and crew member if required for travel.
      (E) The United States visa number or resident alien card number of each passenger and crew member, as applicable.
      (F) Such other information as the Under Secretary, in consultation with the Commissioner of Customs, determines is reasonably necessary to ensure aviation safety.
    (3) T4Passenger name recordsK.–The carriers shall make passenger name record information available to the Customs Service upon request.
    (4) T4Transmission of manifestK.–Subject to paragraphs (5) and (6), a passenger and crew manifest required for a flight under paragraph (1) shall be transmitted to the Customs Service in advance of the aircraft landing in the United States in such manner, time, and form as the Customs Service prescribes.
    (5) T4Transmission of manifests to other federal agenciesK.–Upon request, information provided to the Under Secretary or the Customs Service under this subsection may be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security.
    (6) T4Prescreening international passengers.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Not later than 60 days after date of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the designee of the Secretary, shall issue a notice of proposed rulemaking that will allow the Department of Homeland Security to compare passenger information for any international flight to or from the United States against the consolidated and integrated terrorist watchlist maintained by the Federal Government before departure of the flight.
      (B) T4Appeal procedures.–
        (i) T4In generalK.–The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish a timely and fair process for individuals identified as a threat under subparagraph (A) to appeal to the Department of Homeland Security the determination and correct any erroneous information.
        (ii) T4RecordsK.–The process shall include the establishment of a method by which the Secretary will be able to maintain a record of air passengers and other individuals who have been misidentified and have corrected erroneous information. To prevent repeated delays of misidentified passengers and other individuals, the Department of Homeland Security record shall contain information determined by the Secretary to authenticate the identity of such a passenger or individual.
