  (a) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, ””amount subject to apportionment““ means the amount newly made available under section 48103 of this title for a fiscal year.
  (b) T4Apportionment DateK.–On the first day of each fiscal year, the Secretary of Transportation shall apportion the amount subject to apportionment for that fiscal year as provided in this section.
  (c) T4Amounts Apportioned to SponsorsK.–(1)(A) The Secretary shall apportion to the sponsor of each primary airport for each fiscal year an amount equal to–
    (i) $7.80 for each of the first 50,000 passenger boardings at the airport during the prior calendar year;
    (ii) $5.20 for each of the next 50,000 passenger boardings at the airport during the prior calendar year;
    (iii) $2.60 for each of the next 400,000 passenger boardings at the airport during the prior calendar year;
    (iv) $.65 for each of the next 500,000 passenger boardings at the airport during the prior calendar year; and
    (v) $.50 for each additional passenger boarding at the airport during the prior calendar year.
  (B) Not less than $500,000 nor more than $22,000,000 may be apportioned under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph to an airport sponsor for a primary airport for each fiscal year.
  (2) T4Cargo only airports.–
    (A) T4ApportionmentK.–Subject to subparagraph (D), the Secretary shall apportion an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the amount subject to apportionment each fiscal year to the sponsors of airports served by aircraft providing air transportation of only cargo with a total annual landed weight of more than 100,000,000 pounds.
    (B) T4Suballocation formulaK.–Any funds apportioned under subparagraph (A) to sponsors of airports described in subparagraph (A) shall be allocated among those airports in the proportion that the total annual landed weight of aircraft described in subparagraph (A) landing at each of those airports bears to the total annual landed weight of those aircraft landing at all those airports.
    (C) T4LimitationK.–Not more than 8 percent of the amount apportioned under subparagraph (A) may be apportioned for any one airport.
    (D) T4Distribution to other airportsK.–Before apportioning amounts to the sponsors of airports under subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year, the Secretary may set-aside a portion of such amounts for distribution to the sponsors of other airports, selected by the Secretary, that the Secretary finds will be served primarily by aircraft providing air transportation of only cargo.
    (E) T4Determination of landed weightK.–Landed weight under this paragraph is the landed weight of aircraft landing at each airport described in subparagraph (A) during the prior calendar year.
  (d) T4Amounts Apportioned to StatesK.–(1) In this subsection–
    (A) ””area““ includes land and water.
    (B) ””population““ means the population stated in the latest decennial census of the United States.
  (2) The Secretary shall apportion to the States 18.5 percent of the amount subject to apportionment for each fiscal year as follows:
    (A) 0.66 percent of the apportioned amount to Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Virgin Islands.
    (B) except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, 49.67 percent of the apportioned amount for airports, excluding primary airports but including reliever and nonprimary commercial service airports, in States not named in clause (A) of this paragraph in the proportion that the population of each of those States bears to the total population of all of those States.
    (C) except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, 49.67 percent of the apportioned amount for airports, excluding primary airports but including reliever and nonprimary commercial service airports, in States not named in clause (A) of this paragraph in the proportion that the area of each of those States bears to the total area of all of those States.
  (3) An amount apportioned under paragraph (2) of this subsection for an airport in–
    (A) Alaska may be made available by the Secretary for a public airport described in section 47117(e)(1)(C)(ii) \1\N of this title to which section 15(a)(3)(A)(II) of the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970 applied during the fiscal year that ended September 30, 1981; and
    (B) Puerto Rico may be made available by the Secretary for a primary airport and an airport described in section 47117(e)(1)(C) of this title.
  (e) T4Alternative Apportionment for AlaskaK.–(1) Instead of apportioning amounts for airports in Alaska under subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the Secretary may apportion amounts for those airports in the way in which amounts were apportioned in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, under section 15(a) of the Act. However, in apportioning amounts for a fiscal year under this subsection, the Secretary shall apportion–
    (A) for each primary airport at least as much as would be apportioned for the airport under subsection (c)(1) of this section; and
    (B) a total amount at least equal to the minimum amount required to be apportioned to airports in Alaska in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, under section 15(a)(3)(A) of the Act.
  (2) This subsection does not prohibit the Secretary from making project grants for airports in Alaska from the discretionary fund under section 47115 of this title.
  (3) Airports referred to in this subsection include those public airports that received scheduled service as of September 3, 1982, but were not apportioned amounts in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, under section 15(a) of the Act because the airports were not under the control of a State or local public agency.
  (f) T4Reducing ApportionmentsK.–An amount that would be apportioned under this section (except subsection (c)(2)) in a fiscal year to the sponsor of an airport having at least .25 percent of the total number of boardings each year in the United States and for which a fee is imposed in the fiscal year under section 40117 of this title shall be reduced by an amount equal to 50 percent of the projected revenues from the fee in the fiscal year but not by more than 50 percent of the amount that otherwise would be apportioned under this section.
