  (a) T4General RequirementsK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall designate current or former military airports for which grants may be made under section 47117(e)(1)(B) of this title. The maximum number of airports bearing such designation at any time is 12. The Secretary may only so designate an airport (other than an airport so designated before August 24, 1994) if–
    (1) the airport is a former military installation closed or realigned under–
      (A) section 2687 of title 10;
      (B) section 201 of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act (10 U.S.C. 2687 note); or
      (C) section 2905 of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note); or
    (2) the Secretary finds that such grants would–
      (A) reduce delays at an airport with more than 20,000 hours of annual delays in commercial passenger aircraft takeoffs and landings; or
      (B) enhance airport and air traffic control system capacity in a metropolitan area or reduce current and projected flight delays.
  (b) T4SurveyK.–Not later than September 30, 1991, the Secretary shall complete a survey of current and former military airports to identify which airports have the greatest potential to improve the capacity of the national air transportation system. The survey shall identify the capital development needs of those airports to make them part of the system and which of those qualify for grants under section 47104 of this title.
  (c) T4ConsiderationsK.–In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consider only current or former military airports that, when at least partly converted to civilian commercial or reliever airports as part of the national air transportation system, will enhance airport and air traffic control system capacity in major metropolitan areas and reduce current and projected flight delays.
  (d) T4GrantsK.–Grants under section 47117(e)(1)(E) \1\N of this title may be made for an airport designated under subsection (a) of this section for the 5 fiscal years following the designation, and for subsequent 5-fiscal-year periods if the Secretary determines that the airport satisfies the designation criteria under subsection (a) at the beginning of each such subsequent 5-fiscal-year period.
  (e) T4Terminal Building FacilitiesK.–Not more than $5,000,000 for each airport from amounts the Secretary distributes under section 47115 of this title for a fiscal year is available to the sponsor of a current or former military airport the Secretary designates under this section to construct, improve, or repair a terminal building facility, including terminal gates used for revenue passengers getting on or off aircraft. A gate constructed, improved, or repaired under this subsection–
    (1) may not be leased for more than 10 years; and
    (2) is not subject to majority in interest clauses.
  (f) T4Parking Lots, Fuel Farms, Utilities, and HangarsK.–Not more than a total of $4,000,000 for each airport from amounts the Secretary distributes under section 47115 of this title for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1992, is available to the sponsor of a current or former military airport the Secretary designates under this section to construct, improve, or repair airport surface parking lots, fuel farms, utilities, and hangars.
