  (a) T4Government Relief From LiabilityK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall ensure that an agreement under this subchapter with a State or a political subdivision of a State to allow the State or subdivision to operate an airport facility in the State or subdivision relieves the United States Government from any liability arising out of, or related to, acts or omissions of employees of the State or subdivision in operating the airport facility.
  (b) T4Air Traffic Control Contract ProgramK.–(1) The Secretary shall continue the low activity (Visual Flight Rules) level I air traffic control tower contract program established under subsection (a) of this section for towers existing on December 30, 1987, and extend the program to other towers as practicable.
  (2) The Secretary may make a contract, on a sole source basis, with a State or a political subdivision of a State to allow the State or subdivision to operate an airport traffic control tower classified as a level I (Visual Flight Rules) tower if the Secretary decides that the State or subdivision has the capability to comply with the requirements of this paragraph. The contract shall require that the State or subdivision comply with applicable safety regulations in operating the facility and with applicable competition requirements in making a subcontract to perform work to carry out the contract.
  (3) T4Contract air traffic control tower pilot program.–
    (A) T4In generalK.–The Secretary shall establish a pilot program to contract for air traffic control services at Level I air traffic control towers, as defined by the Secretary, that do not qualify for the contract tower program established under subsection (a) and continued under paragraph (1) (in this paragraph referred to as the ””Contract Tower Program““).
    (B) T4Program componentsK.–In carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary shall–
      (i) utilize for purposes of cost-benefit analyses, current, actual, site-specific data, forecast estimates, or airport master plan data provided by a facility owner or operator and verified by the Secretary; and
      (ii) approve for participation only facilities willing to fund a pro rata share of the operating costs of the air traffic control tower to achieve a 1-to-1 benefit-to-cost ratio using actual site-specific contract tower operating costs in any case in which there is an operating air traffic control tower, as required for eligibility under the Contract Tower Program.
    (C) T4PriorityK.–In selecting facilities to participate in the pilot program, the Secretary shall give priority to the following facilities:
      (i) Air traffic control towers that are participating in the Contract Tower Program but have been notified that they will be terminated from such program because the Secretary has determined that the benefit-to-cost ratio for their continuation in such program is less than 1.0.
      (ii) Air traffic control towers that the Secretary determines have a benefit-to-cost ratio of at least .50.
      (iii) Air traffic control towers of the Federal Aviation Administration that are closed as a result of the air traffic controllers strike in 1981.
      (iv) Air traffic control towers located at airports or points at which an air carrier is receiving compensation under the essential air service program under this chapter.
      (v) Air traffic control towers located at airports that are prepared to assume partial responsibility for maintenance costs.
      (vi) Air traffic control towers located at airports with safety or operational problems related to topography, weather, runway configuration, or mix of aircraft.
      (vii) Air traffic control towers located at an airport at which the community has been operating the tower at its own expense.
    (D) T4Costs exceeding benefitsK.–If the costs of operating an air traffic tower under the pilot program exceed the benefits, the airport sponsor or State or local government having jurisdiction over the airport shall pay the portion of the costs that exceed such benefit.
    (E) T4FundingK.–Subject to paragraph (4)(D), of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 106(k), not more than $6,000,000 per fiscal year may be used to carry out this paragraph.
  (4) T4Construction of air traffic control towers.–
    (A) T4In generalK.–Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the Secretary may provide grants under this subchapter to not more than two airport sponsors for the construction of a low-level activity visual flight rule (level 1) air traffic control tower, as defined by the Secretary.
    (B) T4EligibilityK.–A sponsor shall be eligible for a grant under this paragraph if–
      (i) the sponsor would otherwise be eligible to participate in the pilot program established under paragraph (3) except for the lack of the air traffic control tower proposed to be constructed under this subsection; and
      (ii) the sponsor agrees to fund not less than 25 percent of the costs of construction of the air traffic control tower.
    (C) T4Project costsK.–Grants under this paragraph shall be paid only from amounts apportioned to the sponsor under section 47114(c)(1).
    (D) T4Federal shareK.–The Federal share of the cost of construction of an air traffic control tower under this paragraph may not exceed $1,100,000.
