  (a) T4StatusK.–The Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority shall be–
    (1) a public body corporate and politic with the powers and jurisdiction–
      (A) conferred upon it jointly by the legislative authority of Virginia and the District of Columbia or by either of them and concurred in by the legislative authority of the other jurisdiction; and
      (B) that at least meet the specifications of this section and section 49108 of this title;
    (2) independent of Virginia and its local governments, the District of Columbia, and the United States Government; and
    (3) a political subdivision constituted only to operate and improve the Metropolitan Washington Airports as primary airports serving the Metropolitan Washington area.
  (b) T4General AuthorityK.–(1) The Airports Authority shall be authorized–
    (A) to acquire, maintain, improve, operate, protect, and promote the Metropolitan Washington Airports for public purposes;
    (B) to issue bonds from time to time in its discretion for public purposes, including paying any part of the cost of airport improvements, construction, and rehabilitation and the acquisition of real and personal property, including operating equipment for the airports;
    (C) to acquire real and personal property by purchase, lease, transfer, or exchange;
    (D) to exercise the powers of eminent domain in Virginia that are conferred on it by Virginia;
    (E) to levy fees or other charges; and
    (F) to make and maintain agreements with employee organizations to the extent that the Federal Aviation Administration was authorized to do so on October 18, 1986.
  (2) Bonds issued under paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection–
    (A) are not a debt of Virginia, the District of Columbia, or a political subdivision of Virginia or the District of Columbia; and
    (B) may be secured by the Airports Authority“s revenues generally, or exclusively from the income and revenues of certain designated projects whether or not any part of the projects are financed from the proceeds of the bonds.
  (c) T4Board of DirectorsK.–(1) The Airports Authority shall be governed by a board of directors composed of the following 17 members:
    (A) 7 members appointed by the Governor of Virginia;
    (B) 4 members appointed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia;
    (C) 3 members appointed by the Governor of Maryland; and
    (D) 3 members appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
  (2) The chairman of the board shall be appointed from among the members by majority vote of the members and shall serve until replaced by majority vote of the members.
  (3) Members of the board shall be appointed to the board for 6 years, except that of the members first appointed by the President after October 9, 1996, one shall be appointed for 4 years. Any member of the board shall be eligible for reappointment for 1 additional term. A member shall not serve after the expiration of the member“s term(s).
  (4) A member of the board–
    (A) may not hold elective or appointive political office;
    (B) serves without compensation except for reasonable expenses incident to board functions; and
    (C) must reside within the Washington Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, except that a member of the board appointed by the President must be a registered voter of a State other than Maryland, Virginia, or the District of Columbia.
  (5) A vacancy in the board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made. A member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member“s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of that term.
  (6)    (A) Not more than 2 of the members of the board appointed by the President may be of the same political party.
    (B) In carrying out their duties on the board, members appointed by the President shall ensure that adequate consideration is given to the national interest.
    (C) A member appointed by the President may be removed by the President for cause. A member appointed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Governor of Maryland or the Governor of Virginia may be removed or suspended from office only for cause and in accordance with the laws of jurisdiction \1\N from which the member is appointed.
  (7) Ten votes are required to approve bond issues and the annual budget.
  (d) T4Conflicts of InterestK.–Members of the board and their immediate families may not be employed by or otherwise hold a substantial financial interest in any enterprise that has or is seeking a contract or agreement with the Airports Authority or is an aeronautical, aviation services, or airport services enterprise that otherwise has interests that can be directly affected by the Airports Authority. The official appointing a member may make an exception if the financial interest is completely disclosed when the member is appointed and the member does not participate in board decisions that directly affect the interest.
  (e) T4Certain Actions To Be Taken by RegulationK.–An action of the Airports Authority changing, or having the effect of changing, the hours of operation of, or the type of aircraft serving, either of the Metropolitan Washington Airports may be taken only by regulation of the Airports Authority.
  (f) T4AdministrativeK.–To assist the Secretary in carrying out this chapter, the Secretary may hire 2 staff individuals to be paid by the Airports Authority. The Airports Authority shall provide clerical and support staff that the Secretary may require.
  (g) T4Review of Contracting ProceduresK.–The Comptroller General shall review contracts of the Airports Authority to decide whether the contracts were awarded by procedures that follow sound Government contracting principles and comply with section 49104(a)(4) of this title. The Comptroller General shall submit periodic reports of the conclusions reached as a result of the review to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
