  (a) T4Working GroupK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall establish a working group of State and local government officials, including representatives of the National Governors“ Association, the National Association of Counties, the National League of Cities, the United States Conference of Mayors, and the National Conference of State Legislatures. The purposes of the working group are–
    (1) to establish uniform forms and procedures for a State–
      (A) to register persons that transport or cause to be transported hazardous material by motor vehicle in the State; and
      (B) to allow the transportation of hazardous material in the State; and
    (2) to decide whether to limit the filing of any State registration and permit forms and collection of filing fees to the State in which the person resides or has its principal place of business.
  (b) T4Consultation and ReportingK.–The working group–
    (1) shall consult with persons subject to registration and permit requirements described in subsection (a) of this section; and
    (2) not later than November 16, 1993, shall submit to the Secretary, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a final report that contains–
      (A) a detailed statement of its findings and conclusions; and
      (B) its joint recommendations on the matters referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) T4Regulations on RecommendationsK.–(1) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out the recommendations contained in the report submitted under subsection (b) of this section with which the Secretary agrees. The regulations shall be prescribed by the later of the last day of the 3-year period beginning on the date the working group submitted its report or the last day of the 90-day period beginning on the date on which at least 26 States adopt all of the recommendations of the report. A regulation prescribed under this subsection may not define or limit the amount of a fee a State may impose or collect.
  (2) A regulation prescribed under this subsection takes effect one year after it is prescribed. The Secretary may extend the one-year period for an additional year for good cause. After a regulation is effective, a State may establish, maintain, or enforce a requirement related to the same subject matter only if the requirement is the same as the regulation.
  (3) In consultation with the working group, the Secretary shall develop a procedure to eliminate differences in how States carry out a regulation prescribed under this subsection.
  (d) T4Relationship to Other LawsK.–The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 App. U.S.C.) does not apply to the working group.
