  (a) T4DesignationK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall designate as a transportation management area–
    (1) each urbanized area with a population of more than 200,000; and
    (2) any other area, if requested by the chief executive officer and the metropolitan planning organization designated for the area.
  (b) T4Transportation Plans and ProgramsK.–Transportation plans and programs in a transportation management area shall be based on a continuing and comprehensive transportation planning process the metropolitan planning organization carries out in cooperation with the State and affected mass transportation operators.
  (c) T4Congestion Management SystemK.–The transportation planning process under sections 5303, 5304, and 5306 of this title in a transportation management area shall include a congestion management system providing for effective management, through travel demand reduction and operational management strategies, of new and existing transportation facilities eligible for financing under this chapter and title 23.
  (d) T4Project SelectionK.–(1)(A) All federally funded projects carried out within the boundaries of a transportation management area under title 23 (excluding projects carried out on the National Highway System and projects carried out under the bridge and interstate maintenance program) or under this chapter shall be selected from the approved transportation improvement program by the metropolitan planning organization designated for the area in consultation with the State and any affected public transit operator.
  (B) Projects carried out within the boundaries of a transportation management area on the National Highway System and projects carried out within such boundaries under the bridge program or the interstate maintenance program shall be selected from the approved transportation improvement program by the State in cooperation with the metropolitan planning organization designated for the area.
  (2)    (A) A selection under this subsection must comply with the transportation improvement program for the area.
    (B) A selection under paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection must comply with priorities established in the program.
  (e) T4CertificationK.–(1) At least once every 3 years, the Secretary shall ensure and certify that each metropolitan planning organization in each transportation management area is carrying out its responsibilities under applicable laws of the United States. The Secretary may make the certification only if the organization is complying with section 134 of title 23 and other applicable requirements of laws of the United States and the organization and chief executive officer have approved a transportation improvement program for the area.
  (2)    (A) If a metropolitan planning process is not certified, the Secretary may withhold not more than 20 percent of the apportioned funds attributable to the transportation management area under this chapter and title 23.
    (B) Any apportionments withheld under subparagraph (A) shall be restored to the metropolitan area at such time as the metropolitan planning organization is certified by the Secretary.
  (3) The Secretary may not withhold certification based on the policies and criteria a metropolitan planning organization or mass transportation grant recipient establishes under section 5306(a) of this title for deciding the feasibility of private enterprise participation.
  (4) In making certification determinations under this subsection, the Secretary shall provide for public involvement appropriate to the metropolitan area under review.
  (f) T4Additional Requirements for Certain Nonattainment AreasK.–Government amounts may be made available for a mass transportation project resulting in a significant increase in carrying capacity for single occupant vehicles in a transportation management area classified as a nonattainment area for ozone or carbon monoxide under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) only if the project is part of an approved congestion management system.
  (g) T4Areas Not Designated Transportation Management AreasK.–(1) The Secretary may provide for the development of abbreviated metropolitan transportation plans and programs the Secretary decides are appropriate to carry out this section and sections 5303, 5304, and 5306 of this title for metropolitan areas not designated transportation management areas under this section. The Secretary shall consider the complexity of transportation problems in those areas, including transportation-related air quality problems.
  (2) The Secretary may not provide an abbreviated plan or program for a metropolitan area in a nonattainment area for ozone or carbon monoxide under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).
  (h) T4Continuation of Current Review PracticeK.–Since plans and programs described in this section are subject to a reasonable opportunity for public comment, since individual projects included in the plans and programs are subject to review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and since decisions by the Secretary concerning plans and programs described in this section have not been reviewed under such Act as of January 1, 1997, any decision by the Secretary concerning a plan or program described in this section shall not be considered to be a Federal action subject to review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
