  (a) T4General Authority.–
    (1) T4GrantsK.–The Secretary may make grants to States and local governmental authorities under this section for public transportation capital projects planned, designed, and carried out to meet the special needs of elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities.
    (2) T4SubrecipientsK.–A State that receives a grant under this section may allocate the amounts provided under the grant to–
      (A) a private nonprofit organization, if the public transportation service provided under paragraph (1) is unavailable, insufficient, or inappropriate; or
      (B) a governmental authority that–
        (i) is approved by the State to coordinate services for elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities; or
        (ii) certifies that there are not any nonprofit organizations readily available in the area to provide the services described under paragraph (1).
    (3) T4Acquiring public transportation servicesK.–A public transportation capital project under this section may include acquisition of public transportation services as an eligible capital expense.
    (4) T4Administrative expensesK.–A State or local governmental authority may use not more than 10 percent of the amounts apportioned to the State under this section to administer, plan, and provide technical assistance for a project funded under this section.
  (b) T4Apportionment and Transfers.–
    (1) T4FormulaK.–The Secretary shall apportion amounts made available to carry out this section under a formula the Secretary administers that considers the number of elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities in each State.
    (2) T4Transfer of fundsK.–Any funds apportioned to a State under paragraph (1) may be transferred by the State to the apportionments made under sections 5311(c) and 5336 if such funds are only used for eligible projects selected under this section.
  (c) T4Government“s Share of Costs.–
    (1) T4Capital projects.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–A grant for a capital project under this section shall be for 80 percent of the net capital costs of the project, as determined by the Secretary.
      (B) T4ExceptionK.–A State described in section 120(b) of title 23 shall receive an increased Government share in accordance with the formula under that section.
    (2) T4RemainderK.–The remainder of the net project costs–
      (A) may be provided from an undistributed cash surplus, a replacement or depreciation cash fund or reserve, a service agreement with a State or local social service agency or a private social service organization, or new capital;
      (B) may be derived from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to a department or agency of the Government (other than the Department of Transportation) that are eligible to be expended for transportation; and
      (C) notwithstanding subparagraph (B), may be derived from amounts made available to carry out the Federal lands highway program established by section 204 of title 23.
    (3) T4Use of certain fundsK.–For purposes of paragraph (2)(B), the prohibitions on the use of funds for matching requirements under section 403(a)(5)(C)(vii) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(5)(C)(vii)) shall not apply to Federal or State funds to be used for transportation purposes.
  (d) T4Grant Requirements.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–A grant under this section shall be subject to all requirements of a grant under section 5307 to the extent the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (2) T4Certification requirements.–
      (A) T4Fund transfersK.–A grant recipient under this section that transfers funds to a project funded under section 5336 in accordance with subsection (b)(2) shall certify that the project for which the funds are requested has been coordinated with private nonprofit providers of services under this section.
      (B) T4Project selection and plan developmentK.–Beginning in fiscal year 2007, each grant recipient under this section shall certify that–
        (i) the projects selected were derived from a locally developed, coordinated public transit-human services transportation plan; and
        (ii) the plan was developed through a process that included representatives of public, private, and nonprofit transportation and human services providers and participation by the public.
      (C) T4Allocations to subrecipientsK.–Each grant recipient under this section shall certify that allocations of the grant to subrecipients, if any, are distributed on a fair and equitable basis.
  (e) T4State Program of Projects.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Amounts made available to carry out this section may be used for transportation projects to assist in providing transportation services for elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities that are included in a State program of projects.
    (2) T4Submission and approvalK.–A State shall submit to the Secretary annually for approval a program of projects. The program shall contain an assurance that the program provides for maximum feasible coordination of transportation services assisted under this section with transportation services assisted by other Government sources.
  (f) T4Leasing VehiclesK.–Vehicles acquired under this section may be leased to local governmental authorities to improve transportation services designed to meet the special needs of elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities.
  (g) T4Meal Delivery for Homebound IndividualsK.–Public transportation service providers receiving assistance under this section or section 5311(c) may coordinate and assist in regularly providing meal delivery service for homebound individuals if the delivery service does not conflict with providing public transportation service or reduce service to public transportation passengers.
  (h) T4Transfers of Facilities and EquipmentK.–With the consent of the recipient in possession of a facility or equipment acquired with a grant under this section, a State may transfer the facility or equipment to any recipient eligible to receive assistance under this chapter if the facility or equipment will continue to be used as required under this section.
