  (a) T4Relocation and Real Property RequirementsK.–The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.) shall apply to financial assistance for capital projects under this chapter.
  (b) T4Consideration of Economic, Social, and Environmental Interests.–
    (1) T4Cooperation and consultationK.–In carrying out the policy of section 5301(e), the Secretary shall cooperate and consult with the Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency on each project that may have a substantial impact on the environment.
    (2) T4Public participation in environmental reviewsK.–In performing environmental reviews, the Secretary shall review each transcript of a hearing submitted under section 5323(b) to establish that an adequate opportunity to present views was given to all parties having a significant economic, social, or environmental interest in the project, and that the project application includes a record of–
      (A) the environmental impact of the proposal;
      (B) adverse environmental effects that cannot be avoided;
      (C) alternatives to the proposal; and
      (D) irreversible and irretrievable impacts on the environment.
    (3) T4Approval of applications for assistance.–
      (A) T4Findings by the secretaryK.–The Secretary may approve an application for financial assistance for a capital project in accordance with this chapter only if the Secretary makes written findings, after reviewing the application and the transcript of any hearing held before a State or local governmental authority under section 5323(b), that–
        (i) an adequate opportunity to present views was given to all parties having a significant economic, social, or environmental interest;
        (ii) the preservation and enhancement of the environment and the interest of the community in which the project is located were considered; and
        (iii) no adverse environmental effect is likely to result from the project, or no feasible and prudent alternative to the effect exists and all reasonable steps have been taken to minimize the effect.
      (B) T4HearingK.–If a hearing has not been conducted or the Secretary decides that the record of the hearing is inadequate for making the findings required by this subsection, the Secretary shall conduct a hearing on an environmental issue raised by the application after giving adequate notice to interested persons.
      (C) T4Availability of findingsK.–The Secretary“s findings under subparagraph (A) shall be made a matter of public record.
  (c) T4Railroad Corridor Preservation.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary may assist an applicant to acquire railroad right-of-way before the completion of the environmental reviews for any project that may use the right-of-way if the acquisition is otherwise permitted under Federal law. The Secretary may establish restrictions on such an acquisition as the Secretary determines to be necessary and appropriate.
    (2) T4Environmental reviewsK.–Railroad right-of-way acquired under this subsection may not be developed in anticipation of the project until all required environmental reviews for the project have been completed.
