  (a) T4National Transit DatabaseK.–(1) To help meet the needs of individual mass transportation systems, the United States Government, State and local governments, and the public for information on which to base mass transportation service planning, the Secretary of Transportation shall maintain a reporting system, using uniform categories to accumulate mass transportation financial and operating information and using a uniform system of accounts. The reporting and uniform systems shall contain appropriate information to help any level of government make a public sector investment decision. The Secretary may request and receive appropriate information from any source.
  (2) The Secretary may make a grant under section 5307 of this title only if the applicant, and any person that will receive benefits directly from the grant, are subject to the reporting and uniform systems.
  (b) T4Biennial Transferability ReportK.–In January 1993, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report on carrying out section 5307(b)(5) \1\N of this title. The report shall–
    (1) identify, by State, the amount of mass transportation money transferred for non-mass transportation purposes under section 5307(b)(5) \1\ of this title during the prior fiscal year;
    (2) include an assessment of the impact of the transfers on the mass transportation needs of individuals and communities in the State, including the impact on–
      (A) the State“s ability to meet the mass transportation needs of elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities;
      (B) efforts to meet the objectives of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.); and
      (C) the State“s efforts to extend public mass transportation services to unserved rural areas; and
    (3) examine the relative levels of Government mass transportation assistance and services in urban and rural areas in the fiscal year that ended September 30, 1991, and the extent to which the assistance and service has changed in later fiscal years because of mass transportation resources made available under this chapter and the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102–240, 105 Stat. 1914).
