  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall establish in the Office of the Secretary an Office of Intermodalism.
  (b) T4DirectorK.–The head of the Office is a Director who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
  (c) T4Duties and PowersK.–The Director shall carry out the duties of the Secretary described in section 301(3) of this title.
  (d) T4Intermodal Transportation Data BaseK.–(1) The Director shall develop, maintain, and disseminate intermodal transportation data through the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. The Director shall coordinate the collection of data for the data base with the States and metropolitan planning organizations. The data base shall include information on–
    (A) the volume of property and number of individuals carried in intermodal transportation by relevant classification;
    (B) patterns of movement of property and individuals in intermodal transportation by relevant classification by origin and destination; and
    (C) public and private investment in intermodal transportation facilities and services.
  (2) The Director shall make information from the data base available to the public.
  (e) T4ResearchK.–The Director shall–
    (1) coordinate United States Government research on intermodal transportation as provided in the plan developed under section 6009(b) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102–240, 105 Stat. 2177); and
    (2) carry out additional research needs identified by the Director.
  (f) T4Technical AssistanceK.–The Director shall provide technical assistance to States and to metropolitan planning organizations for urban areas having a population of at least 1,000,000 in collecting data related to intermodal transportation to facilitate the collection of the data by States and metropolitan planning organizations.
  (g) T4Administrative and Clerical SupportK.–The Director shall provide administrative and clerical support to the Intermodal Transportation Advisory Board.
