  (a) T4PurposesK.–The Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with other government agencies and private consortia, shall encourage and promote the research, development, and deployment of transportation technologies that will use technological advances in multimodal vehicles, vehicle components, environmental technologies, and related infrastructure to remove impediments to an efficient, safe, and cost-effective national transportation system.
  (b) T4Definition of Eligible ConsortiumK.–In this section, the term ””eligible consortium““ means a consortium that receives funding under the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102–396; 106 Stat. 1876), and that comprises 2 or more of the following entities:
    (1) Businesses incorporated in the United States.
    (2) Public or private educational or research organizations located in the United States.
    (3) Entities of State or local governments in the United States.
    (4) Federal laboratories.
  (c) T4ProgramK.–The Secretary shall enter into contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions as authorized by section 2371 of title 10 with, and make grants to, eligible consortia to promote the development and deployment of innovation in transportation technology services, management, and operational practices.
  (d) T4Eligibility CriteriaK.–To be eligible to receive assistance under this section, an eligible consortium shall–
    (1) for a period of not less than the 3 years preceding the date of a contract, cooperative agreement, or other transaction, be organized on a statewide or multistate basis for the purpose of designing, developing, and deploying transportation technologies that address identified technological impediments in the transportation field;
    (2) facilitate the participation in the consortium of small- and medium-sized businesses, utilities, public laboratories and universities, and other relevant entities;
    (3) be actively engaged in transportation technology projects that address compliance in nonattainment areas under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.);
    (4) be designed to use Federal and State funding to attract private capital in the form of grants or investments to carry out this section; and
    (5) ensure that at least 50 percent of the funding for the consortium project will be provided by non-Federal sources.
  (e) T4ProposalsK.–The Secretary shall prescribe such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate for the content and structure of proposals submitted for assistance under this section.
  (f) T4Reporting RequirementsK.–At least once each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report on the projects undertaken by the eligible consortia and the progress made in advancing the purposes of this section.
  (g) T4Authorization of Appropriations.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2003, to remain available until expended.
    (2) T4AvailabilityK.–Notwithstanding section 118(a),\1\N funds made available under paragraph (1) shall not be available in advance of an annual appropriation.
