  (a) T4General AuthorityK.–To carry out this chapter, the Secretary of Transportation may conduct investigations, make reports, issue subpenas, conduct hearings, require the production of records, take depositions, and conduct research, testing, development, demonstration, and training activities and promotional activities relating to prevention of damage to pipeline facilities. The Secretary may not charge a tuition-type fee for training State or local government personnel in the enforcement of regulations prescribed under this chapter.
  (b) T4Records, Reports, and InformationK.–To enable the Secretary to decide whether a person owning or operating a pipeline facility is complying with this chapter and standards prescribed or orders issued under this chapter, the person shall–
    (1) maintain records, make reports, and provide information the Secretary requires; and
    (2) make the records, reports, and information available when the Secretary requests.
       The Secretary may require owners and operators of gathering lines to provide the Secretary information pertinent to the Secretary“s ability to make a determination as to whether and to what extent to regulate gathering lines.
  (c) T4Entry and InspectionK.–An officer, employee, or agent of the Department of Transportation designated by the Secretary, on display of proper credentials to the individual in charge, may enter premises to inspect the records and property of a person at a reasonable time and in a reasonable way to decide whether a person is complying with this chapter and standards prescribed or orders issued under this chapter.
  (d) T4Confidentiality of InformationK.–Information related to a confidential matter referred to in section 1905 of title 18 that is obtained by the Secretary or an officer, employee, or agent in carrying out this section may be disclosed only to another officer or employee concerned with carrying out this chapter or in a proceeding under this chapter.
  (e) T4Use of Accident ReportsK.–(1) Each accident report made by an officer, employee, or agent of the Department may be used in a judicial proceeding resulting from the accident. The officer, employee, or agent may be required to testify in the proceeding about the facts developed in investigating the accident. The report shall be made available to the public in a way that does not identify an individual.
  (2) Each report related to research and demonstration projects and related activities is public information.
  (f) T4Testing Facilities Involved in AccidentsK.–The Secretary may require testing of a part of a pipeline facility subject to this chapter that has been involved in or affected by an accident only after–
    (1) notifying the appropriate State official in the State in which the facility is located; and
    (2) attempting to negotiate a mutually acceptable plan for testing with the owner of the facility and, when the Secretary considers appropriate, the National Transportation Safety Board.
  (g) T4Providing Safety InformationK.–On request, the Secretary shall provide the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or appropriate State authority with information the Secretary has on the safety of material, operations, devices, or processes related to pipeline transportation or operating a pipeline facility.
  (h) T4CooperationK.–The Secretary may–
    (1) advise, assist, and cooperate with other departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States Government, the States, and public and private agencies and persons in planning and developing safety standards and ways to inspect and test to decide whether those standards have been complied with;
    (2) consult with and make recommendations to other departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the Government, State and local governments, and public and private agencies and persons to develop and encourage activities, including the enactment of legislation, that will assist in carrying out this chapter and improve State and local pipeline safety programs; and
    (3) participate in a proceeding involving safety requirements related to a liquefied natural gas facility before the Commission or a State authority.
      (i) T4Promoting CoordinationK.–(1) After consulting with appropriate State officials, the Secretary shall establish procedures to promote more effective coordination between departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the Government and State authorities with regulatory authority over pipeline facilities about responses to a pipeline accident.
  (2) In consultation with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Secretary shall establish procedures to notify the Administration of any pipeline accident in which an excavator that has caused damage to a pipeline may have violated a regulation of the Administration.
  (j) T4Withholding Information From CongressK.–This section does not authorize information to be withheld from a committee of Congress authorized to have the information.
  (k) T4Authority for Cooperative AgreementsK.–To carry out this chapter, the Secretary may enter into grants, cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of State or local government, any educational institution, or any other entity to further the objectives of this chapter. The objectives of this chapter include the development, improvement, and promotion of one-call damage prevention programs, research, risk assessment, and mapping.
