  (a) T4Minimum RequirementsK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall prescribe regulations providing minimum requirements for establishing and operating a one-call notification system for a State to adopt that will notify an operator of a pipeline facility of activity in the vicinity of the facility that could threaten the safety of the facility. The regulations shall include the following:
    (1) a requirement that the system apply to all areas of the State containing underground pipeline facilities.
    (2) a requirement that a person, including a government employee or contractor, intending to engage in an activity the Secretary decides could cause physical damage to an underground facility must contact the appropriate system to establish if there are underground facilities present in the area of the intended activity.
    (3) a requirement that all operators of underground pipeline facilities participate in an appropriate one-call notification system.
    (4) qualifications for an operator of a facility, a private contractor, or a State or local authority to operate a system.
    (5) procedures for advertisement and notice of the availability of a system.
    (6) a requirement about the information to be provided by a person contacting the system under clause (2) of this subsection.
    (7) a requirement for the response of the operator of the system and of the facility after they are contacted by an individual under this subsection.
    (8) a requirement that each State decide whether the system will be toll free.
    (9) a requirement for sanctions substantially the same as provided under sections 60120 and 60122 of this title.
  (b) T4Marking FacilitiesK.–On notification by an operator of a damage prevention program or by a person planning to carry out demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction in the vicinity of a pipeline facility, the operator of the facility shall mark accurately, in a reasonable and timely way, the location of the pipeline facilities in the vicinity of the demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction.
  (c) T4Relationship to Other LawsK.–This section and regulations prescribed under this section do not affect the liability established under a law of the United States or a State for damage caused by an activity described in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
  (d) T4Prohibition Applicable to ExcavatorsK.–A person who engages in demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction–
    (1) may not engage in a demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction activity in a State that has adopted a one-call notification system without first using that system to establish the location of underground facilities in the demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction area;
    (2) may not engage in such demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction activity in disregard of location information or markings established by a pipeline facility operator pursuant to subsection (b); and
    (3) and who causes damage to a pipeline facility that may endanger life or cause serious bodily harm or damage to property–
      (A) may not fail to promptly report the damage to the owner or operator of the facility; and
      (B) if the damage results in the escape of any flammable, toxic, or corrosive gas or liquid, may not fail to promptly report to other appropriate authorities by calling the 911 emergency telephone number.
  (e) T4Prohibition Applicable to Underground Pipeline Facility Owners and OperatorsK.–Any owner or operator of a pipeline facility who fails to respond to a location request in order to prevent damage to the pipeline facility or who fails to take reasonable steps, in response to such a request, to ensure accurate marking of the location of the pipeline facility in order to prevent damage to the pipeline facility shall be subject to a civil action under section 60120 or assessment of a civil penalty under section 60122.
  (f) T4LimitationK.–The Secretary may not conduct an enforcement proceeding under subsection (d) for a violation within the boundaries of a State that has the authority to impose penalties described in section 60134(b)(7) against persons who violate that State“s damage prevention laws, unless the Secretary has determined that the State“s enforcement is inadequate to protect safety, consistent with this chapter, and until the Secretary issues, through a rulemaking proceeding, the procedures for determining inadequate State enforcement of penalties.
  (g) T4Technology Development GrantsK.–The Secretary may make grants to any organization or entity (not including for-profit entities) for the development of technologies that will facilitate the prevention of pipeline damage caused by demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction activities, with emphasis on wireless and global positioning technologies having potential for use in connection with notification systems and underground facility locating and marking services. Funds provided under this subsection may not be used for lobbying or in direct support of litigation. The Secretary may also support such technology development through cooperative agreements with trade associations, academic institutions, and other organizations.
