  (a) T4Grant Authority.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary of Transportation may make grants for technical assistance to local communities and groups of individuals (not including for-profit entities) relating to the safety of pipeline facilities in local communities, other than facilities regulated under Public Law 93–153 (43 U.S.C. 1651 et seq.). No grants may be awarded under section 60114(g) until the Secretary has established competitive procedures for awarding grants under this section and criteria for selecting grant recipients. The amount of any grant under this section may not exceed $50,000 for a single grant recipient. The Secretary shall establish appropriate procedures to ensure the proper use of funds provided under this section.
    (2) T4Demonstration grantsK.–At least the first 3 grants awarded under this section shall be demonstration grants for the purpose of demonstrating and evaluating the utility of grants under this section. Each such demonstration grant shall not exceed $25,000.
    (3) T4Dissemination of technical findingsK.–Each recipient of a grant under this section shall ensure that–
      (A) the technical findings made possible by the grants are made available to the relevant operators; and
      (B) open communication between the grant recipients, local operators, local communities, and other interested parties is encouraged.
    (4) T4Technical assistance definedK.–In this subsection, the term ””technical assistance““ means engineering and other scientific analysis of pipeline safety issues, including the promotion of public participation in official proceedings conducted under this chapter.
  (b) T4Prohibited UsesK.–Funds provided under this section may not be used for lobbying or in direct support of litigation.
  (c) T4Annual Report.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Not later than 90 days after the last day of each fiscal year for which grants are made by the Secretary under this section, the Secretary shall report to the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives on grants made under this section in the preceding fiscal year.
    (2) T4ContentsK.–The report shall include–
      (A) a listing of the identity and location of each recipient of a grant under this section in the preceding fiscal year and the amount received by the recipient;
      (B) a description of the purpose for which each grant was made; and
      (C) a description of how each grant was used by the recipient.
  (d) T4Authorization of AppropriationsK.–There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for carrying out this section $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2010. Such amounts shall not be derived from user fees collected under section 60301.
