  (a) T4Information To Be ProvidedK.–Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section, the operator of a pipeline facility (except distribution lines and gathering lines) shall provide to the Secretary of Transportation the following information with respect to the facility:
    (1) Geospatial data appropriate for use in the National Pipeline Mapping System or data in a format that can be readily converted to geospatial data.
    (2) The name and address of the person with primary operational control to be identified as its operator for purposes of this chapter.
    (3) A means for a member of the public to contact the operator for additional information about the pipeline facilities it operates.
    (4) Any other geospatial or technical data, including design and material specifications, that the Secretary determines are necessary to carry out the purposes of this section. The Secretary shall give reasonable notice to operators that the data are being requested.
  (b) T4UpdatesK.–A person providing information under subsection (a) shall provide to the Secretary updates of the information to reflect changes in the pipeline facility owned or operated by the person and as otherwise required by the Secretary.
  (c) T4Technical Assistance To Improve Local Response CapabilitiesK.–The Secretary may provide technical assistance to State and local officials to improve local response capabilities for pipeline emergencies by adapting information available through the National Pipeline Mapping System to software used by emergency response personnel responding to pipeline emergencies.
  (d) T4Map of High-consequence AreasK.–The Secretary shall–
    (1) maintain, as part of the National Pipeline Mapping System, a map of designated high-consequence areas (as described in section 60109(a)) in which pipelines are required to meet integrity management program regulations, excluding any proprietary or sensitive security information; and
    (2) update the map biennially.
  (e) T4Program To Promote Awareness of National Pipeline Mapping SystemK.–Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall develop and implement a program promoting greater awareness of the existence of the National Pipeline Mapping System to State and local emergency responders and other interested parties. The program shall include guidance on how to use the National Pipeline Mapping System to locate pipelines in communities and local jurisdictions.
  (f) T4Public Disclosure LimitedK.–The Secretary may not disclose information collected pursuant to subsection (a) except to the extent permitted by section 552 of title 5.
