  (a) T4RequirementK.–A license issued or transferred under this chapter, or a permit, is required for the following:
    (1) for a person to launch a launch vehicle or to operate a launch site or reentry site, or to reenter a reentry vehicle, in the United States.
    (2) for a citizen of the United States (as defined in section 70102(1)(A) or (B) of this title) to launch a launch vehicle or to operate a launch site or reentry site, or to reenter a reentry vehicle, outside the United States.
    (3) for a citizen of the United States (as defined in section 70102(1)(C) of this title) to launch a launch vehicle or to operate a launch site or reentry site, or to reenter a reentry vehicle, outside the United States and outside the territory of a foreign country unless there is an agreement between the United States Government and the government of the foreign country providing that the government of the foreign country has jurisdiction over the launch or operation or reentry.
    (4) for a citizen of the United States (as defined in section 70102(1)(C) of this title) to launch a launch vehicle or to operate a launch site or reentry site, or to reenter a reentry vehicle, in the territory of a foreign country if there is an agreement between the United States Government and the government of the foreign country providing that the United States Government has jurisdiction over the launch or operation or reentry.
       Notwithstanding this subsection, a permit shall not authorize a person to operate a launch site or reentry site.
  (b) T4Compliance With Payload RequirementsK.–The holder of a license or permit under this chapter may launch or reenter a payload only if the payload complies with all requirements of the laws of the United States related to launching or reentering a payload.
  (c) T4Preventing Launches and ReentriesK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall establish whether all required licenses, authorizations, and permits required for a payload have been obtained. If no license, authorization, or permit is required, the Secretary may prevent the launch or reentry if the Secretary decides the launch or reentry would jeopardize the public health and safety, safety of property, or national security or foreign policy interest of the United States.
  (d) T4Single License or PermitK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall ensure that only 1 license or permit is required from the Department of Transportation to conduct activities involving crew or space flight participants, including launch and reentry, for which a license or permit is required under this chapter. The Secretary shall ensure that all Department of Transportation regulations relevant to the licensed or permitted activity are satisfied.
