  (a) T4General RequirementsK.–(1) When a license is issued or transferred under this chapter, the licensee or transferee shall obtain liability insurance or demonstrate financial responsibility in amounts to compensate for the maximum probable loss from claims by–
    (A) a third party for death, bodily injury, or property damage or loss resulting from an activity carried out under the license; and
    (B) the United States Government against a person for damage or loss to Government property resulting from an activity carried out under the license.
  (2) The Secretary of Transportation shall determine the amounts required under paragraph (1)(A) and (B) of this subsection, after consulting with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Secretary of the Air Force, and the heads of other appropriate executive agencies.
  (3) For the total claims related to one launch, a licensee or transferee is not required to obtain insurance or demonstrate financial responsibility of more than–
    (A)      (i) $500,000,000 under paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection; or
      (ii) $100,000,000 under paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection; or
    (B) the maximum liability insurance available on the world market at reasonable cost if the amount is less than the applicable amount in clause (A)(i) or (ii) of this paragraph.
  (4) An insurance policy or demonstration of financial responsibility under this subsection shall protect the following, to the extent of their potential liability for involvement in launch services, at no cost to the Government:
    (A) the Government.
    (B) executive agencies and personnel, contractors, and subcontractors of the Government.
    (C) contractors, subcontractors, and customers of the licensee or transferee.
    (D) contractors and subcontractors of the customer.
  (b) T4Reciprocal Waiver of ClaimsK.–(1) A license issued or transferred under this chapter shall contain a provision requiring the licensee or transferee to make a reciprocal waiver of claims with its contractors, subcontractors, and customers, and contractors and subcontractors of the customers, involved in launch services under which each party to the waiver agrees to be responsible for property damage or loss it sustains, or for personal injury to, death of, or property damage or loss sustained by its own employees resulting from an activity carried out under the license.
  (2) The Secretary of Transportation shall make, for the Government, executive agencies of the Government involved in launch services, and contractors and subcontractors involved in launch services, a reciprocal waiver of claims with the licensee or transferee, contractors, subcontractors, and customers of the licensee or transferee, and contractors and subcontractors of the customers, involved in launch services under which each party to the waiver agrees to be responsible for property damage or loss it sustains, or for personal injury to, death of, or property damage or loss sustained by its own employees resulting from an activity carried out under the license. The waiver applies only to the extent that claims are more than the amount of insurance or demonstration of financial responsibility required under subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section. After consulting with the Administrator and the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of Transportation may waive, for the Government and a department, agency, and instrumentality of the Government, the right to recover damages for damage or loss to Government property to the extent insurance is not available because of a policy exclusion the Secretary of Transportation decides is usual for the type of insurance involved.
  (c) T4Determination of Maximum Probable LossesK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall determine the maximum probable losses under subsection (a)(1)(A) and (B) of this section associated with an activity under a license not later than 90 days after a licensee or transferee requires a determination and submits all information the Secretary requires. The Secretary shall amend the determination as warranted by new information.
  (d) T4Annual ReportK.–(1) Not later than November 15 of each year, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives a report on current determinations made under subsection (c) of this section related to all issued licenses and the reasons for the determinations.
  (2) Not later than May 15 of each year, the Secretary of Transportation shall review the amounts specified in subsection (a)(3)(A) of this section and submit a report to Congress that contains proposed adjustments in the amounts to conform with changed liability expectations and availability of insurance on the world market. The proposed adjustment takes effect 30 days after a report is submitted.
  (e) T4Launches Involving Government Facilities and PersonnelK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall establish requirements consistent with this chapter for proof of financial responsibility and other assurances necessary to protect the Government and its executive agencies and personnel from liability, death, bodily injury, or property damage or loss as a result of a launch or operation of a launch site involving a facility or personnel of the Government. The Secretary may not relieve the Government of liability under this subsection for death, bodily injury, or property damage or loss resulting from the willful misconduct of the Government or its agents.
  (f) T4Collection and Crediting PaymentsK.–The head of a department, agency, or instrumentality of the Government shall collect a payment owed for damage or loss to Government property under its jurisdiction or control resulting from an activity carried out under a license issued or transferred under this chapter. The payment shall be credited to the current applicable appropriation, fund, or account of the department, agency, or instrumentality.
