  (a) T4Executive AgenciesK.–Except as provided in this chapter, a person is not required to obtain from an executive agency a license, approval, waiver, or exemption to launch a launch vehicle or operate a launch site or reentry site, or to reenter a reentry vehicle.
  (b) T4Federal Communications Commission and Secretary of CommerceK.–This chapter does not affect the authority of–
    (1) the Federal Communications Commission under the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.); or
    (2) the Secretary of Commerce under the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992 (15 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.).
  (c) T4States and Political SubdivisionsK.–A State or political subdivision of a State–
    (1) may not adopt or have in effect a law, regulation, standard, or order inconsistent with this chapter; but
    (2) may adopt or have in effect a law, regulation, standard, or order consistent with this chapter that is in addition to or more stringent than a requirement of, or regulation prescribed under, this chapter.
  (d) T4ConsultationK.–The Secretary of Transportation is encouraged to consult with a State to simplify and expedite the approval of a space launch or reentry activity.
  (e) T4Foreign CountriesK.–The Secretary of Transportation shall–
    (1) carry out this chapter consistent with an obligation the United States Government assumes in a treaty, convention, or agreement in force between the Government and the government of a foreign country; and
    (2) consider applicable laws and requirements of a foreign country when carrying out this chapter.
  (f) T4Launch Not an Export; Reentry Not an ImportK.–A launch vehicle, reentry vehicle, or payload that is launched or reentered is not, because of the launch or reentry, an export or import, respectively, for purposes of a law controlling exports or imports, except that payloads launched pursuant to foreign trade zone procedures as provided for under the Foreign Trade Zones Act (19 U.S.C. 81a–81u) shall be considered exports with regard to customs entry.
  (g) T4NonapplicationK.–This chapter does not apply to–
    (1) a launch, reentry, operation of a launch vehicle or reentry vehicle, operation of a launch site or reentry site, or other space activity the Government carries out for the Government; or
    (2) planning or policies related to the launch, reentry, operation, or activity.
