  (a) T4In GeneralK.–The Secretary of Transportation, within 9 months after the date of the enactment of this section, shall issue regulations to carry out this chapter that include–
    (1) guidelines for industry and State governments to obtain sufficient insurance coverage for potential damages to third parties;
    (2) procedures for requesting and obtaining licenses to launch a commercial launch vehicle;
    (3) procedures for requesting and obtaining operator licenses for launch;
    (4) procedures for requesting and obtaining launch site operator licenses; and
    (5) procedures for the application of government indemnification.
  (b) T4ReentryK.–The Secretary of Transportation, within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this section, shall issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to carry out this chapter that includes–
    (1) procedures for requesting and obtaining licenses to reenter a reentry vehicle;
    (2) procedures for requesting and obtaining operator licenses for reentry; and
    (3) procedures for requesting and obtaining reentry site operator licenses.
  (c) T4AmendmentsK.–(1) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act of 2004, the Secretary shall publish proposed regulations to carry out that Act, including regulations relating to crew, space flight participants, and permits for launch or reentry of reusable suborbital rockets. Not later than 18 months after such date of enactment, the Secretary shall issue final regulations.
  (2)    (A) Starting 3 years after the date of enactment of the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act of 2004, the Secretary may issue final regulations changing the definition of suborbital rocket under this chapter. No such regulation may take effect until 180 days after the Secretary has submitted the regulation to the Congress.
    (B) The Secretary may issue regulations under this paragraph only if the Secretary has determined that the definition in section 70102 does not describe, or will not continue to describe, all appropriate vehicles and only those vehicles. In making that determination, the Secretary shall take into account the evolving nature of the commercial space launch industry.
  (d) T4Effective DateK.–(1) Licenses for the launch or reentry of launch vehicles or reentry vehicles with human beings on board and permits may be issued by the Secretary prior to the issuance of the regulations described in subsection (c).
  (2) As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act of 2004, the Secretary shall issue guidelines or advisory circulars to guide the implementation of that Act until regulations are issued.
  (3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), no licenses for the launch or reentry of launch vehicles or reentry vehicles with human beings on board or permits may be issued starting three years after the date of enactment of the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act of 2004 unless the final regulations described in subsection (c) have been issued.
