  (a) T4GeneralK.–(1) In this subsection–
    (A) ””private aircraft““ means a civilian aircraft not being used to transport passengers or property for compensation.
    (B) ””private vessel““ means a civilian vessel not being used–
      (i) to transport passengers or property for compensation; or
      (ii) in fishing or fish processing operations.
  (2) Notwithstanding section 451 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1451), the owner, operator, or agent of a private aircraft or private vessel may pay not more than $25 for the services of an officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture, the Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, or the Public Health Service (including an independent contractor performing an inspection service for the Public Health Service) when the services are performed on a Sunday, holiday, or from 5 p.m. through 8 a.m. on a weekday, and are related to the aircraft“s or vessel“s arrival in, or departure from, the United States. However, the owner, operator, or agent does not have to pay for the services from 5 p.m. through 8 a.m. on a weekday when an officer or employee on regular duty is available at the place of arrival or departure to perform services.
  (3) The head of a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government providing services under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall collect the amount paid for the services and deposit the amount in the Treasury. The amount shall be credited to the appropriation of the department, agency, or instrumentality against which the expense of those services was charged.
  (b) T4Limitations on ReimbursementK.–(1) An owner or operator of an aircraft is required to reimburse the head of a department, agency, or instrumentality of the Government for the expenses of performing an inspection or quarantine service related to the aircraft at a place of inspection during regular service hours on a Sunday or holiday only to the same extent that an owner or operator makes reimbursement for the service during regular service hours on a weekday. The head of the department, agency, or instrumentality may not assess an owner or operator of an aircraft for administrative overhead expenses for inspection or quarantine service provided by the department, agency, or instrumentality at an entry airport.
  (2) This subsection does not require reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary of the Treasury in providing customs services described in section 13031(e)(1) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(e)(1)).
