   The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) Drug abuse is rapidly increasing in the United States and now afflicts urban, suburban, and rural areas of the Nation.
  (2) Drug abuse seriously impairs individual, as well as societal, health and well-being.
  (3) Drug abuse, especially heroin addiction, substantially contributes to crime.
  (4) The adverse impact of drug abuse inflicts increasing pain and hardship on individuals, families, and communities and undermines our institutions.
  (5) Too little is known about drug abuse, especially the causes, and ways to treat and prevent drug abuse.
  (6) The success of Federal drug abuse programs and activities requires a recognition that education, treatment, rehabilitation, research, training, and law enforcement efforts are interrelated.
  (7) The effectiveness of efforts by State and local governments and by the Federal Government to control and treat drug abuse in the United States has been hampered by a lack of coordination among the States, between States and localities, among the Federal Government, States and localities, and throughout the Federal establishment.
  (8) Control of drug abuse requires the development of a comprehensive, coordinated long-term Federal strategy that encompasses both effective law enforcement against illegal drug traffic and effective health programs to rehabilitate victims of drug abuse.
  (9) The increasing rate of drug abuse constitutes a serious and continuing threat to national health and welfare, requiring an immediate and effective response on the part of the Federal Government.
  (10) Although the Congress observed a significant apparent reduction in the rate of increase of drug abuse during the three-year period subsequent to March 21, 1972, and in certain areas of the country apparent temporary reductions in its incidence, the increase and spread of heroin consumption since 1974, and the continuing abuse of other dangerous drugs, clearly indicate the need for effective, ongoing, and highly visible Federal leadership in the formation and execution of a comprehensive, coordinated drug abuse policy.
  (11) Shifts in the usage of various drugs and in the Nation“s demographic composition require a Federal strategy to adjust the focus of drug abuse programs to meet new needs and priorities on a cost-effective basis.
  (12) The growing extent of drug abuse indicates an urgent need for prevention and intervention programs designed to reach the general population and members of high risk populations such as youth, women, and the elderly.
  (13) Effective control of drug abuse requires high-level coordination of Federal international and domestic activities relating to both supply of, and demand for, commonly abused drugs.
  (14) Local governments with high concentrations of drug abuse should be actively involved in the planning and coordination of efforts to combat drug abuse.
