  (a) Data management systems
    (1) Not later than 480 days after August 23, 1988, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall place in effect computerized data management systems for the Food and Drug Administration under which the Administration will–
      (A) record, summarize, and evaluate the results of its program for monitoring food products for pesticide residues,
      (B) identify gaps in its pesticide monitoring program in the monitoring of (i) pesticides, (ii) food products, and (iii) food from specific countries and from domestic sources,
      (C) detect trends in the presence of pesticide residues in food products and identify public health problems emerging from the occurrence of pesticide residues in food products,
      (D) focus its testing resources for monitoring pesticide residues in food on detecting those residues which pose a public health concern,
      (E) prepare summaries of the information listed in subsection (b) of this section, and
      (F) provide information to assist the Environmental Protection Agency in carrying out its responsibilities under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act [7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.] and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.].
    (2) As soon as practicable, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall develop a means to enable the computerized data management systems placed into effect under paragraph (1) to make the summary described in subsection (c) of this section.
    (3)      (A) Paragraph (1) does not limit the authority of the Food and Drug Administration to–
        (i) use the computerized data management systems placed in effect under paragraph (1), or
        (ii) develop additional data management systems,
           to facilitate the regulation of any substance or product covered under the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.].
      (B) In placing into effect the computerized data management systems under paragraph (1) and in carrying out paragraph (2), the Secretary shall comply with applicable regulations governing computer system design and procurement.
  (b) Information
     The Food and Drug Administration shall use the computerized data management systems placed into effect under subsection (a)(1) of this section to prepare a summary of–
    (1) information on–
      (A) the types of imported and domestically produced food products analyzed for compliance with the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] regarding the presence of pesticide residues,
      (B) the number of samples of each such food product analyzed for such compliance by country of origin,
      (C) the pesticide residues which may be detected using the testing methods employed,
      (D) the pesticide residues in such food detected and the levels detected,
      (E) the compliance status of each sample of such food tested and the violation rate for each country-product combination, and
      (F) the action taken with respect to each sample of such food found to be in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] and its ultimate disposition, and
    (2) information on–
      (A) the country of origin of each imported food product referred to in paragraph (1)(A), and
      (B) the United States district of entry for each such imported food product.
  (c) Volume data
     The Food and Drug Administration shall use the computerized data management systems placed into effect under subsection (a)(1) of this section to summarize the volume of each type of food product subject to the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] which is imported into the United States and which has an entry value which exceeds an amount established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The summary shall be made by country of origin and district of entry. Information with respect to volumes of food products to be included in the summary shall, to the extent feasible, be obtained from data bases of other Federal agencies.
  (d) Compilation
     Not later than 90 days after the expiration of 1 year after the data management systems are placed into effect under subsection (a) of this section and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall compile a summary of the information described in subsection (b) of this section with respect to the previous year. When the Food and Drug Administration is able to make summaries under subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary shall include in the compilation under the preceding sentence a compilation of the information described in subsection (c) of this section. Compilations under this subsection shall be made available to Federal and State agencies and other interested persons.
