  (a) Establishment of Office
     There is established in the Executive Office of the President an Office of National Drug Control Policy, which shall–
    (1) develop national drug control policy;
    (2) coordinate and oversee the implementation of the national drug control policy;
    (3) assess and certify the adequacy of National Drug Control Programs and the budget for those programs; and
    (4) evaluate the effectiveness of the national drug control policy and the National Drug Control Program agencies“ programs, by developing and applying specific goals and performance measurements.
       When developing the national drug control policy, any policy of the Director relating to syringe exchange programs for intravenous drug users shall be based on the best available medical and scientific evidence regarding their effectiveness in promoting individual health and preventing the spread of infectious disease, and their impact on drug addiction and use. In making any policy relating to syringe exchange programs, the Director shall consult with the National Institutes of Health and the National Academy of Sciences.
  (b) Director of National Drug Control Policy and Deputy Directors
    (1) Director
       There shall be a Director of National Drug Control Policy who shall head the Office (referred to in this chapter as the ””Director““) and shall hold the same rank and status as the head of an executive department listed in section 101 of title 5.
    (2) Deputy Director
       There shall be a Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy who shall report directly to the Director (referred to in this chapter as the ””Deputy Director““).
    (3) Other Deputy Directors
      (A) In general
         There shall be a Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, a Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, and a Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs.
      (B) Reporting
         The Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, the Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, and the Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs shall report directly to the Deputy Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
      (C) Deputy Director for Demand Reduction
         The Deputy Director for Demand Reduction shall be responsible for the activities in subparagraphs (A) through (H) of section 1701(1) \1\N of this title.
      (D) Deputy Director for Supply Reduction
         The Deputy Director for Supply Reduction shall–
        (i) have substantial experience and expertise in drug interdiction and other supply reduction activities; and
        (ii) be responsible for the activities in subparagraphs (A) through (C) in section 1701(11) of this title.
      (E) Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs
         The Deputy Director for State, Local, and Tribal Affairs shall be responsible for the activities–
        (i) in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of section 1701(10) of this title;
        (ii) in section 1706 of this title, the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program; and
        (iii) in section 1707 of this title, the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center.
  (c) Access by Congress
     The location of the Office in the Executive Office of the President shall not be construed as affecting access by Congress, or any committee of the House of Representatives or the Senate, to any–
    (1) information, document, or study in the possession of, or conducted by or at the direction of the Director; or
    (2) personnel of the Office.
  (d) Office of National Drug Control Policy Gift Fund
    (1) Establishment
       There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund for the receipt of gifts, both real and personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office under section 1703(c) of this title.
    (2) Contributions
       The Office may accept, hold, and administer contributions to the Fund.
    (3) Use of amounts deposited
       Amounts deposited in the Fund are authorized to be appropriated, to remain available until expended for authorized purposes at the discretion of the Director.
