  (a) Access to information
    (1) In general
       Upon the request of the Director, the head of any National Drug Control Program agency shall cooperate with and provide to the Director any statistics, studies, reports, and other information prepared or collected by the agency concerning the responsibilities of the agency under the National Drug Control Strategy that relate to–
      (A) drug abuse control; or
      (B) the manner in which amounts made available to that agency for drug control are being used by that agency.
    (2) Protection of intelligence information
      (A) In general
         The authorities conferred on the Office and the Director by this chapter shall be exercised in a manner consistent with provisions of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.). The Director of Central Intelligence shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to protect information provided pursuant to this chapter regarding intelligence sources and methods.
      (B) Duties of Director
         The Director of Central Intelligence shall, to the maximum extent practicable in accordance with subparagraph (A), render full assistance and support to the Office and the Director.
    (3) Illegal drug cultivation
       The Secretary of Agriculture shall annually submit to the Director an assessment of the acreage of illegal drug cultivation in the United States.
  (b) Certification of policy changes to Director
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2), the head of a National Drug Control Program agency shall, unless exigent circumstances require otherwise, notify the Director in writing regarding any proposed change in policies relating to the activities of that agency under the National Drug Control Program prior to implementation of such change. The Director shall promptly review such proposed change and certify to the head of that agency in writing whether such change is consistent with the National Drug Control Strategy.
    (2) Exception
       If prior notice of a proposed change under paragraph (1) is not practicable–
      (A) the head of the National Drug Control Program agency shall notify the Director of the proposed change as soon as practicable; and
      (B) upon such notification, the Director shall review the change and certify to the head of that agency in writing whether the change is consistent with the National Drug Control Program.
  (c) General Services Administration
     The Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Director, in \1\N a reimbursable basis, such administrative support services as the Director may request.
  (d) Accounting of funds expended
     The Director shall–
    (A) require the National Drug Control Program agencies to submit to the Director not later than February 1 of each year a detailed accounting of all funds expended by the agencies for National Drug Control Program activities during the previous fiscal year, and require such accounting to be authenticated by the Inspector General for each agency prior to submission to the Director; and
    (B) submit to Congress not later than April 1 of each year the information submitted to the Director under subparagraph (A).
