  (a) In general
    (1) Establishment
       There is established a Council to be known as the Parents Advisory Council on Youth Drug Abuse (referred to in this section as the ””Council““).
    (2) Membership
      (A) Composition
         The Council shall be composed of 16 members, of whom–
        (i) 4 shall be appointed by the President, each of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date on which the appointment is made;
        (ii) 4 shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate, 3 of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date on which the appointment is made;
        (iii) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate, each of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date on which the appointment is made;
        (iv) 4 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 3 of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date on which the appointment is made; and
        (v) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, each of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date on which the appointment is made.
      (B) Requirements
        (i) In general
           Each member of the Council shall be an individual from the private sector with a demonstrated interest and expertise in research, education, treatment, or prevention activities related to youth drug abuse.
        (ii) Representatives of nonprofit organizations
           Not less than 1 member appointed under each of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph (2)(A) shall be a representative of a nonprofit organization focused on involving parents in antidrug education and prevention.
      (C) Date
         The appointments of the initial members of the Council shall be made not later than 60 days after October 21, 1998.
      (D) Executive Director
         The Director shall appoint the Executive Director of the Council, who shall be an employee of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
    (3) Period of appointment; vacancies
      (A) Period of appointment
         Each member of the Council shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that, of the initial members of the Council–
        (i) 1 member appointed under each of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph (2)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 1 year; and
        (ii) 1 member appointed under each of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph (2)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 2 years.
      (B) Vacancies
         Any vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers, provided that a quorum is present, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member“s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of that term.
      (C) Appointment of successor
         To the extent necessary to prevent a vacancy in the membership of the Council, a member of the Council may serve for not more than 6 months after the expiration of the term of that member, if the successor of that member has not been appointed.
    (4) Initial meeting
       Not later than 120 days after the date on which all initial members of the Council have been appointed, the Council shall hold its first meeting.
    (5) Meetings
       The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairperson.
    (6) Quorum
       Nine members of the Council shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
    (7) Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
      (A) In general
         The members of the Council shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the members of the Council.
      (B) Duties of Chairperson
         The Chairperson of the Council shall assign committee duties relating to the Council and direct the Executive Director to convene hearings and conduct other necessary business of the Council.
      (C) Duties of Vice Chairperson
         If the Chairperson of the Council is unable to serve, the Vice Chairperson shall serve as the Chairperson.
  (b) Duties of Council
    (1) In general
       The Council–
      (A) shall advise the Director on drug prevention, education, and treatment and assist the Deputy Director of Demand Reduction in the responsibilities for the coordination of the demand reduction programs of the Federal Government and the analysis and consideration of prevention and treatment alternatives; and
      (B) may issue reports and recommendations on drug prevention, education, and treatment, in addition to the reports detailed in paragraph (2), as the Council considers appropriate.
    (2) Submission of reports
       Any report or recommendation issued by the Council shall be submitted to the Director and subsequently to Congress.
    (3) Advice on the national drug control strategy
       Not later than December 1, 1999, and on December 1 of each year thereafter, the Council shall submit to the Director an annual report containing drug control strategy recommendations on drug prevention, education, and treatment. The Director may include any recommendations submitted under this paragraph in the report submitted by the Director under section 1705(b) of this title.
  (c) Expenses
     The members of the Council shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Council.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated to the Council such sums as may be necessary \1\N carry out this section.
