   For purposes of this part:
  (1) The term ””human drug application““ means an application for–
    (A) approval of a new drug submitted under section 355(b)(1) of this title,
    (B) approval of a new drug submitted under section 355(b)(2) of this title after September 30, 1992, which requests approval of–
      (i) a molecular entity which is an active ingredient (including any salt or ester of an active ingredient), or
      (ii) an indication for a use,
     that had not been approved under an application submitted under section 355(b) of this title,
    (C) initial certification or initial approval of an antibiotic drug under section 357 of this title, or
    (D) licensure of a biological product under section 262 of title 42.
   Such term does not include a supplement to such an application, does not include an application with respect to whole blood or a blood component for transfusion, does not include an application with respect to a bovine blood product for topical application licensed before September 1, 1992, an allergenic extract product, or an in vitro diagnostic biologic product licensed under section 262 of title 42, and does not include an application with respect to a large volume parenteral drug product approved before September 1, 1992.
  (2) The term ””supplement““ means a request to the Secretary to approve a change in a human drug application which has been approved.
  (3) The term ””prescription drug product““ means a specific strength or potency of a drug in final dosage form–
    (A) for which a human drug application has been approved, and
    (B) which may be dispensed only under prescription pursuant to section 353(b) of this title.
   Such term does not include whole blood or a blood component for transfusion, does not include a bovine blood product for topical application licensed before September 1, 1992, an allergenic extract product, or an in vitro diagnostic biologic product licensed under section 262 of title 42, and does not include a large volume parenteral drug product approved before September 1, 1992.
  (4) The term ””final dosage form““ means, with respect to a prescription drug product, a finished dosage form which is approved for administration to a patient without further manufacturing.
  (5) The term ””prescription drug establishment““ means a foreign or domestic place of business which is–
    (A) at one general physical location consisting of one or more buildings all of which are within 5 miles of each other, at which one or more prescription drug products are manufactured in final dosage form, and
    (B) under the management of a person that is listed as the applicant in a human drug application for a prescription drug product with respect to at least one such product.
   For purposes of this paragraph, the term ””manufactured““ does not include packaging.
  (6) The term ””process for the review of human drug applications““ means the following activities of the Secretary with respect to the review of human drug applications and supplements:
    (A) The activities necessary for the review of human drug applications and supplements.
    (B) The issuance of action letters which approve human drug applications or which set forth in detail the specific deficiencies in such applications and, where appropriate, the actions necessary to place such applications in condition for approval.
    (C) The inspection of prescription drug establishments and other facilities undertaken as part of the Secretary“s review of pending human drug applications and supplements.
    (D) Activities necessary for the review of applications for licensure of establishments subject to section 262 of title 42 and for the release of lots of biologics under such section.
    (E) Monitoring of research conducted in connection with the review of human drug applications.
  (7) The term ””costs of resources allocated for the process for the review of human drug applications““ means the expenses incurred in connection with the process for the review of human drug applications for–
    (A) officers and employees of the Food and Drug Administration, employees under contract with the Food and Drug Administration who work in facilities owned or leased for the Food and Drug Administration, advisory committees, and costs related to such officers, employees, and committees,
    (B) management of information, and the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of computer resources,
    (C) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and repair of facilities and acquisition, maintenance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, scientific equipment, and other necessary materials and supplies, and
    (D) collecting fees under section 379h of this title and accounting for resources allocated for the review of human drug applications and supplements.
  (8) The term ””adjustment factor““ applicable to a fiscal year is the lower of–
    (A) the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (all items; United States city average) for August of the preceding fiscal year divided by such Index for August 1992, or
    (B) the total of discretionary budget authority provided for programs in the domestic category for the immediately preceding fiscal year (as reported in the Office of Management and Budget sequestration preview report, if available, required under section 254(d) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 904(d)]) divided by such budget authority for fiscal year 1992 (as reported in the Office of Management and Budget final sequestration report submitted after the end of the 102d Congress, 2d Session).
   The terms ””budget authority““ and ””category““ in subparagraph (B) are as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.], as in effect as of September 1, 1992.
