   For purposes of this subpart:
  (1) The term ””premarket application““ means–
    (A) an application for approval of a device submitted under section 360e(c) of this title or section 262 of title 42; or
    (B) a product development protocol described in section 360e(f) of this title.
   Such term does not include a supplement, a premarket report, or a premarket notification submission.
  (2) The term ””premarket report““ means a report submitted under section 360e(c)(2) of this title.
  (3) The term ””premarket notification submission““ means a report submitted under section 360(k) of this title.
  (4)    (A) The term ””supplement““, with respect to a panel-track supplement, a 180-day supplement, a real-time supplement, or an efficacy supplement, means a request to the Secretary to approve a change in a device for which–
      (i) an application or report has been approved under section 360e(d) of this title, or an application has been approved under section 262 of title 42; or
      (ii) a notice of completion has become effective under section 360e(f) of this title.
    (B) The term ””panel-track supplement““ means a supplement to an approved premarket application or premarket report under section 360e of this title that requests a significant change in design or performance of the device, or a new indication for use of the device, and for which substantial clinical data are necessary to provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness.
    (C) The term ””180-day supplement““ means a supplement to an approved premarket application or premarket report under section 360e of this title that is not a panel-track supplement and requests a significant change in components, materials, design, specification, software, color additives, or labeling.
    (D) The term ””real-time supplement““ means a supplement to an approved premarket application or premarket report under section 360e of this title that requests a minor change to the device, such as a minor change to the design of the device, software, sterilization, or labeling, and for which the applicant has requested and the agency has granted a meeting or similar forum to jointly review and determine the status of the supplement.
    (E) The term ””efficacy supplement““ means a supplement to an approved premarket application under section 262 of title 42 that requires substantive clinical data.
  (5) The term ””30-day notice““ means a notice under section 360e(d)(6) of this title that is limited to a request to make modifications to manufacturing procedures or methods of manufacture affecting the safety and effectiveness of the device.
  (6) The term ””request for classification information““ means a request made under section 360c(g) of this title for information respecting the class in which a device has been classified or the requirements applicable to a device.
  (7) The term ””annual fee““, for periodic reporting concerning a class III device, means the annual fee associated with periodic reports required by a premarket application approval order.
  (8) The term ””process for the review of device applications““ means the following activities of the Secretary with respect to the review of premarket applications, premarket reports, supplements, and premarket notification submissions:
    (A) The activities necessary for the review of premarket applications, premarket reports, supplements, and premarket notification submissions.
    (B) The issuance of action letters that allow the marketing of devices or which set forth in detail the specific deficiencies in such applications, reports, supplements, or submissions and, where appropriate, the actions necessary to place them in condition for approval.
    (C) The inspection of manufacturing establishments and other facilities undertaken as part of the Secretary“s review of pending premarket applications, premarket reports, and supplements.
    (D) Monitoring of research conducted in connection with the review of such applications, reports, supplements, and submissions.
    (E) Review of device applications subject to section 262 of title 42 for an investigational new drug application under section 355(i) of this title or for an investigational device exemption under section 360j(g) of this title and activities conducted in anticipation of the submission of such applications under section 355(i) or 360j(g) of this title.
    (F) The development of guidance, policy documents, or regulations to improve the process for the review of premarket applications, premarket reports, supplements, and premarket notification submissions.
    (G) The development of voluntary test methods, consensus standards, or mandatory performance standards under section 360d of this title in connection with the review of such applications, reports, supplements, or submissions and related activities.
    (H) The provision of technical assistance to device manufacturers in connection with the submission of such applications, reports, supplements, or submissions.
    (I) Any activity undertaken under section 360c or 360e(i) of this title in connection with the initial classification or reclassification of a device or under section 360e(b) of this title in connection with any requirement for approval of a device.
    (J) Evaluation of postmarket studies required as a condition of an approval of a premarket application or premarket report under section 360e of this title or a premarket application under section 262 of title 42.
    (K) Compiling, developing, and reviewing information on relevant devices to identify safety and effectiveness issues for devices subject to premarket applications, premarket reports, supplements, or premarket notification submissions.
  (9) The term ””costs of resources allocated for the process for the review of device applications““ means the expenses incurred in connection with the process for the review of device applications for–
    (A) officers and employees of the Food and Drug Administration, contractors of the Food and Drug Administration, advisory committees, and costs related to such officers, employees, and committees and to contracts with such contractors;
    (B) management of information, and the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of computer resources;
    (C) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and repair of facilities and acquisition, maintenance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, scientific equipment, and other necessary materials and supplies; and
    (D) collecting fees and accounting for resources allocated for the review of premarket applications, premarket reports, supplements, and submissions.
  (10) The term ””adjustment factor““ applicable to a fiscal year is the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (all items; United States city average) for October of the preceding fiscal year divided by such Index for October 2001.
  (11) The term ””person““ includes an affiliate thereof.
  (12) The term ””affiliate““ means a business entity that has a relationship with a second business entity (whether domestic or international) if, directly or indirectly–
    (A) one business entity controls, or has the power to control, the other business entity; or
    (B) a third party controls, or has power to control, both of the business entities.
  (13) The term ””establishment subject to a registration fee““ means an establishment that is required to register with the Secretary under section 360 of this title and is one of the following types of establishments:
    (A) Manufacturer
       An establishment that makes by any means any article that is a device, including an establishment that sterilizes or otherwise makes such article for or on behalf of a specification developer or any other person.
    (B) Single-use device reprocessor
       An establishment that, within the meaning of section 321(T3llK)(2)(A) of this title, performs additional processing and manufacturing operations on a single-use device that has previously been used on a patient.
    (C) Specification developer
       An establishment that develops specifications for a device that is distributed under the establishment“s name but which performs no manufacturing, including an establishment that, in addition to developing specifications, also arranges for the manufacturing of devices labeled with another establishment“s name by a contract manufacturer.
