  (a) Types of fees
    (1) In general
       Beginning in fiscal year 2008, the Secretary shall assess and collect fees in accordance with this section.
    (2) Premarket application, premarket report, supplement, and submission fee, and annual fee for periodic reporting concerning a class III device
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B) and subsections (d) and (e) of this section, each person who submits any of the following, on or after October 1, 2002, shall be subject to a fee established under subsection (c)(1) of this section for the fiscal year involved in accordance with the following:
        (i) A premarket application.
        (ii) For a premarket report, a fee equal to the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (iii) For a panel track supplement, a fee equal to 75 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (iv) For a 180-day supplement, a fee equal to 15 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (v) For a real-time supplement, a fee equal to 7 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (vi) For a 30-day notice, a fee equal to 1.6 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (vii) For an efficacy supplement, a fee equal to the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (viii) For a premarket notification submission, a fee equal to 1.84 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (ix) For a request for classification information, a fee equal to 1.35 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
        (x) For periodic reporting concerning a class III device, an annual fee equal to 3.5 percent of the fee that applies under clause (i).
      (B) Exceptions
        (i) Humanitarian device exemption
           An application under section 360j(m) of this title is not subject to any fee under subparagraph (A).
        (ii) Further manufacturing use
           No fee shall be required under subparagraph (A) for the submission of a premarket application under section 262 of title 42 for a product licensed for further manufacturing use only.
        (iii) State or Federal Government sponsors
           No fee shall be required under subparagraph (A) for a premarket application, premarket report, supplement, or premarket notification submission submitted by a State or Federal Government entity unless the device involved is to be distributed commercially.
        (iv) Premarket notifications by third parties
           No fee shall be required under subparagraph (A) for a premarket notification submission reviewed by an accredited person pursuant to section 360m of this title.
        (v) Pediatric conditions of use
          (I) In general
             No fee shall be required under subparagraph (A) for a premarket application, premarket report, or premarket notification submission if the proposed conditions of use for the device involved are solely for a pediatric population. No fee shall be required under such subparagraph for a supplement if the sole purpose of the supplement is to propose conditions of use for a pediatric population.
          (II) Subsequent proposal of adult conditions of use
             In the case of a person who submits a premarket application or premarket report for which, under subclause (I), a fee under subparagraph (A) is not required, any supplement to such application that proposes conditions of use for any adult population is subject to the fee that applies under such subparagraph for a premarket application.
      (C) Payment
         The fee required by subparagraph (A) shall be due upon submission of the premarket application, premarket report, supplement, premarket notification submission, 30-day notice, request for classification information, or periodic reporting concerning a class III device. Applicants submitting portions of applications pursuant to section 360e(c)(4) of this title shall pay such fees upon submission of the first portion of such applications.
      (D) Refunds
        (i) Application refused for filing
           The Secretary shall refund 75 percent of the fee paid under subparagraph (A) for any application, report, or supplement that is refused for filing.
        (ii) Application withdrawn before filing
           The Secretary shall refund 75 percent of the fee paid under subparagraph (A) for any application, report, or supplement that is withdrawn prior to the filing decision of the Secretary.
        (iii) Application withdrawn before first action
           After receipt of a request for a refund of the fee paid under subparagraph (A) for a premarket application, premarket report, or supplement that is withdrawn after filing but before a first action, the Secretary may return some or all of the fee. The amount of refund, if any, shall be based on the level of effort already expended on the review of such application, report, or supplement.
        (iv) Modular applications withdrawn before first action
           The Secretary shall refund 75 percent of the application fee paid for an application submitted under section 360e(c)(4) of this title that is withdrawn before a second portion is submitted and before a first action on the first portion.
        (v) Later withdrawn modular applications
           If an application submitted under section 360e(c)(4) of this title is withdrawn after a second or subsequent portion is submitted but before any first action, the Secretary may return a portion of the fee. The amount of refund, if any, shall be based on the level of effort already expended on the review of the portions submitted.
        (vi) Sole discretion to refund
           The Secretary shall have sole discretion to refund a fee or portion of the fee under clause (iii) or (v). A determination by the Secretary concerning a refund under clause (iii) or (v) shall not be reviewable.
    (3) Annual establishment registration fee
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B), each establishment subject to a registration fee shall be subject to a fee for each initial or annual registration under section 360 of this title beginning with its registration for fiscal year 2008.
      (B) Exception
         No fee shall be required under subparagraph (A) for an establishment operated by a State or Federal governmental entity or an Indian tribe (as defined in the Indian Self Determination and Educational Assistance Act \1\N [25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.]), unless a device manufactured by the establishment is to be distributed commercially.
      (C) Payment
         The fee required under subparagraph (A) shall be due once each fiscal year, upon the initial registration of the establishment or upon the annual registration under section 360 of this title.
  (b) Fee amounts
     Except as provided in subsections (c), (d), (e), and (h) the fees under subsection (a) shall be based on the following fee amounts:
      
     Premarket ApplicationD$185,000D$200,725D$217,787D$236,298D$256,38419
     Establishment RegistrationD$1,706D$1,851D$2,008D$2,179D$2,364.
  (c) Annual fee setting
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall, 60 days before the start of each fiscal year after September 30, 2002, publish in the Federal Register fees under subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) Adjustment
      (A) In general
         When setting fees for fiscal year 2010, the Secretary may increase the fee under subsection (a)(3)(A) (applicable to establishments subject to registration) only if the Secretary estimates that the number of establishments submitting fees for fiscal year 2009 is fewer than 12,250. The percentage increase shall be the percentage by which the estimate of establishments submitting fees in fiscal year 2009 is fewer than 12,750, but in no case may the percentage increase be more than 8.5 percent over that specified in subsection (b) for fiscal year 2010. If the Secretary makes any adjustment to the fee under subsection (a)(3)(A) for fiscal year 2010, then such fee for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 shall be adjusted so that such fee for fiscal year 2011 is equal to the adjusted fee for fiscal year 2010 increased by 8.5 percent, and such fee for fiscal year 2012 is equal to the adjusted fee for fiscal year 2011 increased by 8.5 percent.
      (B) Publication
         For any adjustment made under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the Secretary“s determination to make the adjustment and the rationale for the determination.
    (3) Limit
       The total amount of fees charged, as adjusted under this subsection, for a fiscal year may not exceed the total costs for such fiscal year for the resources allocated for the process for the review of device applications.
    (4) Supplement
      (A) In general
         The Secretary may use unobligated carryover balances from fees collected in previous fiscal years to ensure that sufficient fee revenues are available in that fiscal year, so long as the Secretary maintains unobligated carryover balances of not less than 1 month of operating reserves for the first month of the next fiscal year.
      (B) Notice to Congress
         Not later than 14 days before the Secretary anticipates the use of funds described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall provide notice to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  (d) Small businesses; fee waiver and fee reduction regarding premarket approval fees
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall grant a waiver of the fee required under subsection (a) of this section for one premarket application, or one premarket report, where the Secretary finds that the applicant involved is a small business submitting its first premarket application to the Secretary, or its first premarket report, respectively, for review. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term ””small business““ means an entity that reported $30,000,000 or less of gross receipts or sales in its most recent Federal income tax return for a taxable year, including such returns of all of its affiliates. In addition, for subsequent premarket applications, premarket reports, and supplements where the Secretary finds that the applicant involved is a small business, the fees specified in clauses (i) through (v) and clauses (vii), (ix), and (x) of subsection (a)(2)(A) may be paid at a reduced rate in accordance with paragraph (2)(C).
    (2) Rules relating to premarket approval fees
      (A) Definition
         For purposes of this paragraph, the term ””small business““ means an entity that reported $100,000,000 or less of gross receipts or sales in its most recent Federal income tax return for a taxable year, including such returns of all of its affiliates.
      (B) Evidence of qualification
        (i) In general
           An applicant shall pay the higher fees established by the Secretary each year unless the applicant submits evidence that it qualifies for a waiver of the fee or the lower fee rate.
        (ii) Firms submitting tax returns to the United States Internal Revenue Service
           The applicant shall support its claim that it meets the definition under subparagraph (A) by submission of a copy of its most recent Federal income tax return for a taxable year, and a copy of such returns of its affiliates, which show an amount of gross sales or receipts that is less than the maximum established in subparagraph (A). The applicant, and each of such affiliates, shall certify that the information provided is a true and accurate copy of the actual tax forms they submitted to the Internal Revenue Service. If no tax forms are submitted for any affiliate, the applicant shall certify that the applicant has no affiliates.
        (iii) Firms not submitting tax returns to the United States Internal Revenue Service
           In the case of an applicant that has not previously submitted a Federal income tax return, the applicant and each of its affiliates shall demonstrate that it meets the definition under subparagraph (A) by submission of a signed certification, in such form as the Secretary may direct through a notice published in the Federal Register, that the applicant or affiliate meets the criteria for a small business and a certification, in English, from the national taxing authority of the country in which the applicant or, if applicable, affiliate is headquartered. The certification from such taxing authority shall bear the official seal of such taxing authority and shall provide the applicant“s or affiliate“s gross receipts or sales for the most recent year in both the local currency of such country and in United States dollars, the exchange rate used in converting such local currency to dollars, and the dates during which these receipts or sales were collected. The applicant shall also submit a statement signed by the head of the applicant“s firm or by its chief financial officer that the applicant has submitted certifications for all of its affiliates, or that the applicant has no affiliates.
      (C) Reduced fees
         Where the Secretary finds that the applicant involved meets the definition under subparagraph (A), the fees established under subsection (c)(1) may be paid at a reduced rate of–
        (i) 25 percent of the fee established under such subsection for a premarket application, a premarket report, a supplement, or periodic reporting concerning a class III device; and
        (ii) 50 percent of the fee established under such subsection for a 30-day notice or a request for classification information.
      (D) Request for fee waiver or reduction
         An applicant seeking a fee waiver or reduction under this subsection shall submit supporting information to the Secretary at least 60 days before the fee is required pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. The decision of the Secretary regarding whether an entity qualifies for such a waiver or reduction is not reviewable.
  (e) Small businesses; fee reduction regarding premarket notification submissions
    (1) In general
       For fiscal year 2008 and each subsequent fiscal year, where the Secretary finds that the applicant involved is a small business, the fee specified in subsection (a)(2)(A)(viii) of this section may be paid at a reduced rate in accordance with paragraph (2)(C).
    (2) Rules relating to premarket notification submissions
      (A) Definition
         For purposes of this subsection, the term ””small business““ means an entity that reported $100,000,000 or less of gross receipts or sales in its most recent Federal income tax return for a taxable year, including such returns of all of its affiliates.
      (B) Evidence of qualification
        (i) In general
           An applicant shall pay the higher fees established by the Secretary each year unless the applicant submits evidence that it qualifies for the lower fee rate.
        (ii) Firms submitting tax returns to the United States Internal Revenue Service
           The applicant shall support its claim that it meets the definition under subparagraph (A) by submission of a copy of its most recent Federal income tax return for a taxable year, and a copy of such returns of its affiliates, which show an amount of gross sales or receipts that is less than the maximum established in subparagraph (A). The applicant, and each of such affiliates, shall certify that the information provided is a true and accurate copy of the actual tax forms they submitted to the Internal Revenue Service. If no tax forms are submitted for any affiliate, the applicant shall certify that the applicant has no affiliates.
        (iii) Firms not submitting tax returns to the United States Internal Revenue Service
           In the case of an applicant that has not previously submitted a Federal income tax return, the applicant and each of its affiliates shall demonstrate that it meets the definition under subparagraph (A) by submission of a signed certification, in such form as the Secretary may direct through a notice published in the Federal Register, that the applicant or affiliate meets the criteria for a small business and a certification, in English, from the national taxing authority of the country in which the applicant or, if applicable, affiliate is headquartered. The certification from such taxing authority shall bear the official seal of such taxing authority and shall provide the applicant“s or affiliate“s gross receipts or sales for the most recent year in both the local currency of such country and in United States dollars, the exchange rate used in converting such local currency to dollars, and the dates during which these receipts or sales were collected. The applicant shall also submit a statement signed by the head of the applicant“s firm or by its chief financial officer that the applicant has submitted certifications for all of its affiliates, or that the applicant has no affiliates.
      (C) Reduced fees
         For fiscal year 2008 and each subsequent fiscal year, where the Secretary finds that the applicant involved meets the definition under subparagraph (A), the fee for a premarket notification submission may be paid at 50 percent of the fee that applies under subsection (a)(2)(A)(viii), and as established under subsection (c)(1).
      (D) Request for reduction
         An applicant seeking a fee reduction under this subsection shall submit supporting information to the Secretary at least 60 days before the fee is required pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. The decision of the Secretary regarding whether an entity qualifies for such a reduction is not reviewable.
  (f) Effect of failure to pay fees
    (1) No acceptance of submissions
       A premarket application, premarket report, supplement, premarket notification submission, 30-day notice, request for classification information, or periodic reporting concerning a class III device submitted by a person subject to fees under subsections (a)(2) and (a)(3) shall be considered incomplete and shall not be accepted by the Secretary until all fees owed by such person have been paid.
    (2) No registration
       Registration information submitted under section 360 of this title by an establishment subject to a registration fee shall be considered incomplete and shall not be accepted by the Secretary until the registration fee under subsection (a)(3) owed for the establishment has been paid. Until the fee is paid and the registration is complete, the establishment is deemed to have failed to register in accordance with section 360 of this title.
  (g) Conditions
    (1) Performance goals; termination of program
       With respect to the amount that, under the salaries and expenses account of the Food and Drug Administration, is appropriated for a fiscal year for devices and radiological products, fees may not be assessed under subsection (a) for the fiscal year, and the Secretary is not expected to meet any performance goals identified for the fiscal year, if–
      (A) the amount so appropriated for the fiscal year, excluding the amount of fees appropriated for the fiscal year, is more than 1 percent less than $205,720,000 multiplied by the adjustment factor applicable to such fiscal year; or
      (B) fees were not assessed under subsection (a) for the previous fiscal year.
    (2) Authority
       If the Secretary does not assess fees under subsection (a) during any portion of a fiscal year because of paragraph (1) and if at a later date in such fiscal year the Secretary may assess such fees, the Secretary may assess and collect such fees, without any modification in the rate for premarket applications, supplements, premarket reports, premarket notification submissions, 30-day notices, requests for classification information, periodic reporting concerning a class III device, and establishment registrations at any time in such fiscal year, notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) relating to the date fees are to be paid.
  (h) Crediting and availability of fees
    (1) In general
       Fees authorized under subsection (a) of this section shall be collected and available for obligation only to the extent and in the amount provided in advance in appropriation Acts. Such fees are authorized to be appropriated to remain available until expended. Such sums as may be necessary may be transferred from the Food and Drug Administration salaries and expenses appropriation account without fiscal year limitation to such appropriation account for salaries and expenses with such fiscal year limitation. The sums transferred shall be available solely for the process for the review of device applications.
    (2) Collections and appropriation acts
      (A) In general
         The fees authorized by this section–
        (i) shall be retained in each fiscal year in an amount not to exceed the amount specified in appropriation Acts, or otherwise made available for obligation, for such fiscal year, and
        (ii) shall only be collected and available to defray increases in the costs of the resources allocated for the process for the review of device applications (including increases in such costs for an additional number of full-time equivalent positions in the Department of Health and Human Services to be engaged in such process) over such costs, excluding costs paid from fees collected under this section, for fiscal year 2002 multiplied by the adjustment factor.
      (B) Compliance
        (i) In general
           The Secretary shall be considered to have met the requirements of subparagraph (A)(ii) in any fiscal year if the costs funded by appropriations and allocated for the process for the review of device applications–
          (I) are not more than 3 percent below the level specified in subparagraph (A)(ii); or
          (II)            (aa) are more than 3 percent below the level specified in subparagraph (A)(ii), and fees assessed for a subsequent fiscal year are decreased by the amount in excess of 3 percent by which such costs fell below the level specified in such subparagraph; and
            (bb) such costs are not more than 5 percent below the level specified in such subparagraph.
        (ii) More than 5 percent
           To the extent such costs are more than 5 percent below the specified level in subparagraph (A)(ii), fees may not be collected under this section for that fiscal year.
    (3) Authorizations of appropriations
       There are authorized to be appropriated for fees under this section–
      (A) $48,431,000 for fiscal year 2008;
      (B) $52,547,000 for fiscal year 2009;
      (C) $57,014,000 for fiscal year 2010;
      (D) $61,860,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
      (E) $67,118,000 for fiscal year 2012.
    (4) Offset
       If the cumulative amount of fees collected during fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010, added to the amount estimated to be collected for fiscal year 2011, which estimate shall be based upon the amount of fees received by the Secretary through June 30, 2011, exceeds the amount of fees specified in aggregate in paragraph (3) for these four fiscal years, the aggregate amount in excess shall be credited to the appropriation account of the Food and Drug Administration as provided in paragraph (1), and shall be subtracted from the amount of fees that would otherwise be authorized to be collected under this section pursuant to appropriation Acts for fiscal year 2012.
      (i) Collection of unpaid fees
         In any case where the Secretary does not receive payment of a fee assessed under subsection (a) of this section within 30 days after it is due, such fee shall be treated as a claim of the United States Government subject to subchapter II of chapter 37 of title 31.
      (j) Written requests for refunds
         To qualify for consideration for a refund under subsection (a)(2)(D) of this section, a person shall submit to the Secretary a written request for such refund not later than 180 days after such fee is due.
      (k) Construction
         This section may not be construed to require that the number of full-time equivalent positions in the Department of Health and Human Services, for officers, employees, and advisory committees not engaged in the process of the review of device applications, be reduced to offset the number of officers, employees, and advisory committees so engaged.
