  (a) Definitions
     As used in this section:
    (1) The term ””controlled substance““ has the same meaning given such term in section 802(6) of this title.
    (2) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (3) The term ””State““ means each of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
  (b) Persons ineligible for Federal agricultural program benefits
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, following December 23, 1985, any person who is convicted under Federal or State law of planting, cultivation, growing, producing, harvesting, or storing a controlled substance in any crop year shall be ineligible for–
    (1) as to any commodity produced during that crop year, and the four succeeding crop years, by such person–
      (A) any price support or payment made available under the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.), or any other Act;
      (B) a farm storage facility loan made under section 4(h) of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714b(h));
      (C) crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.);
      (D) a disaster payment made under the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.); or
      (E) a loan made, insured or guaranteed under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) or any other provision of law administered by the Farmers Home Administration; or
    (2) a payment made under section 4 or 5 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714b or 714c) for the storage of an agricultural commodity that is–
      (A) produced during that crop year, or any of the four succeeding crop years, by such person; and
      (B) acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation.
  (c) Regulations
     Not later than 180 days after December 23, 1985, the Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary determines are necessary to carry out this section, including regulations that–
    (1) define the term ””person““;
    (2) govern the determination of persons who shall be ineligible for program benefits under this section; and
    (3) protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers.
