  (a) T4OrganizationK.–The Cost Accounting Standards Board is an independent board in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy.
  (b) T4Membership.–
    (1) T4Number of members, chairman, and appointmentK.–The Board consists of 5 members. One member is the Administrator, who serves as Chairman. The other 4 members, all of whom shall have experience in Federal Government contract cost accounting, are as follows:
      (A) 2 representatives of the Federal Government–
        (i) one of whom is a representative of the Department of Defense appointed by the Secretary of Defense; and
        (ii) one of whom is an officer or employee of the General Services Administration appointed by the Administrator of General Services.
      (B) 2 individuals from the private sector, each of whom is appointed by the Administrator, and–
        (i) one of whom is a representative of industry; and
        (ii) one of whom is particularly knowledgeable about cost accounting problems and systems.
    (2) T4Term of office.–
      (A) T4Length of termK.–The term of office of each member, other than the Administrator, is 4 years. The terms are staggered, with the terms of 2 members expiring in the same year, the term of another member expiring the next year, and the term of the last member expiring the year after that.
      (B) T4Individual required to remain with appointing agencyK.–A member appointed under paragraph (1)(A) may not continue to serve after ceasing to be an officer or employee of the agency from which that member was appointed.
    (3) T4VacancyK.–A vacancy on the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made. A member appointed to fill a vacancy serves for the remainder of the term for which that member“s predecessor was appointed.
  (c) T4Senior StaffK.–The Administrator, after consultation with the Board, may–
    (1) appoint an executive secretary and 2 additional staff members without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service; and
    (2) pay those employees without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that those employees may not receive pay in excess of the maximum rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule.
  (d) T4Other StaffK.–The Administrator may appoint, fix the compensation of, and remove additional employees of the Board under the applicable provisions of title 5.
  (e) T4Detailed and Temporary PersonnelK.–For service on advisory committees and task forces to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and responsibilities–
    (1) the Board, with the consent of the head of a Federal agency, may use, without reimbursement, personnel of that agency; and
    (2) the Administrator, after consultation with the Board, may procure temporary and intermittent services of personnel under section 3109(b) of title 5.
  (f) T4Compensation.–
    (1) T4Officers and employees of the governmentK.–Members of the Board who are officers or employees of the Federal Government, and officers and employees of other agencies of the Federal Government who are used under subsection (e)(1), shall not receive additional compensation for services but shall continue to be compensated by the employing department or agency of the officer or employee.
    (2) T4Appointees from private sectorK.–Each member of the Board appointed from the private sector shall receive compensation at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule for each day (including travel time) in which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Board.
    (3) T4Temporary and intermittent personnelK.–An individual hired under subsection (e)(2) may receive compensation at a rate fixed by the Administrator, but not to exceed the daily equivalent of the rate for level V of the Executive Schedule for each day (including travel time) in which the individual is properly engaged in the actual performance of duties under this chapter.
    (4) T4Travel expensesK.–While serving away from home or regular place of business, Board members and other individuals serving on an intermittent basis under this chapter shall be allowed travel expenses in accordance with section 5703 of title 5.
