  (a) List of inapplicable provisions of law
    (1) The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall include a list of provisions of law that are inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial items. A provision of law that is properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) may not be construed as applicable to purchases of commercial items by an executive agency. Nothing in this section shall be construed to render inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial items any provision of law that is not included on such list.
    (2) A provision of law described in subsection (c) of this section that is enacted after October 13, 1994, shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law required by paragraph (1), unless the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Federal Government to exempt contracts for the procurement of commercial items from the applicability of the provision.
  (b) Subcontracts
    (1) The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall include a list of provisions of law that are inapplicable to subcontracts under either a contract for the procurement of commercial items or a subcontract for the procurement of commercial items. A provision of law that is properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) may not be construed as applicable to such subcontracts. Nothing in this section shall be construed to render inapplicable to subcontracts under a contract for the procurement of commercial items any provision of law that is not included on such list.
    (2) A provision of law described in subsection (c) of this section shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law required by paragraph (1) unless the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Federal Government to exempt subcontracts under a contract for the procurement of commercial items from the applicability of the provision.
    (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the waiver of the applicability of any provision of law with respect to any subcontract under a contract with a prime contractor reselling or distributing commercial items of another contractor without adding value.
    (4) In this subsection, the term ””subcontract““ includes a transfer of commercial items between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor or subcontractor.
  (c) Covered law
     A provision of law referred to in subsections (a)(2) and (b) of this section is any provision of law that, as determined by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council, sets forth policies, procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement of property or services by the Federal Government, except for a provision of law that–
    (1) provides for criminal or civil penalties; or
    (2) specifically refers to this section and provides that, notwithstanding this section, it shall be applicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial items.
  (d) Petition
     In the event that a provision of law described in subsection (c) of this section is not included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law as required by subsection (a) or (b) of this section, and no written determination has been made by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council pursuant to subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section, a person may petition the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy to take appropriate action. The Administrator shall revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation to include the provision on the list of inapplicable provisions of law unless the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council makes a determination pursuant to subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section within 60 days after the date on which the petition is received.
