  (a) Applicability
     This section does not apply to an executive agency that is subject to chapter 87 of title 10.
  (b) Management policies
    (1) Policies and procedures
       The head of each executive agency, after consultation with the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, shall establish policies and procedures for the effective management (including accession, education, training, career development, and performance incentives) of the acquisition workforce of the agency. The development of acquisition workforce policies under this section shall be carried out consistent with the merit system principles set forth in section 2301(b) of title 5.
    (2) Uniform implementation
       The head of each executive agency shall ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, acquisition workforce policies and procedures established are uniform in their implementation throughout the agency.
    (3) Government-wide policies and evaluation
       The Administrator shall issue policies to promote uniform implementation of this section by executive agencies, with due regard for differences in program requirements among agencies that may be appropriate and warranted in view of the agency mission. The Administrator shall coordinate with the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget to ensure that such policies are consistent with the policies and procedures established and enhanced system of incentives provided pursuant to section 5051(c) of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (41 U.S.C. 263 note). The Administrator shall evaluate the implementation of the provisions of this section by executive agencies.
  (c) Senior procurement executive authorities and responsibilities
     Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the head of an executive agency, the senior procurement executive of the agency shall carry out all powers, functions, and duties of the head of the agency with respect to implementation of this section. The senior procurement executive shall ensure that the policies of the head of the executive agency established in accordance with this section are implemented throughout the agency.
  (d) Management information systems
     The Administrator shall ensure that the heads of executive agencies collect and maintain standardized information on the acquisition workforce related to implementation of this section. To the maximum extent practicable, such data requirements shall conform to standards established by the Office of Personnel Management for the Central Personnel Data File.
  (e) Applicability to acquisition workforce
     The programs established by this section shall apply to the acquisition workforce of each executive agency. For purposes of this section, the acquisition workforce of an agency consists of all employees serving in acquisition positions listed in subsection (g)(1)(A) of this section.
  (f) Career development
    (1) Career paths
       The head of each executive agency shall ensure that appropriate career paths for personnel who desire to pursue careers in acquisition are identified in terms of the education, training, experience, and assignments necessary for career progression to the most senior acquisition positions. The head of each executive agency shall make information available on such career paths.
    (2) Critical duties and tasks
       For each career path, the head of each executive agency shall identify the critical acquisition-related duties and tasks in which, at minimum, employees of the agency in the career path shall be competent to perform at full performance grade levels. For this purpose, the head of the executive agency shall provide appropriate coverage of the critical duties and tasks identified by the Director of the Federal Acquisition Institute.
    (3) Mandatory training and education
       For each career path, the head of each executive agency shall establish requirements for the completion of course work and related on-the-job training in the critical acquisition-related duties and tasks of the career path. The head of each executive agency shall also encourage employees to maintain the currency of their acquisition knowledge and generally enhance their knowledge of related acquisition management disciplines through academic programs and other self-developmental activities.
    (4) Performance incentives
       The head of each executive agency shall provide for an enhanced system of incentives for the encouragement of excellence in the acquisition workforce which rewards performance of employees that contribute to achieving the agency“s performance goals. The system of incentives shall include provisions that–
      (A) relate pay to performance (including the extent to which the performance of personnel in such workforce contributes to achieving the cost goals, schedule goals, and performance goals established for acquisition programs pursuant to section 263(b) of this title); and
      (B) provide for consideration, in personnel evaluations and promotion decisions, of the extent to which the performance of personnel in such workforce contributes to achieving such cost goals, schedule goals, and performance goals.
  (g) Qualification requirements
    (1) In general
      (A) Subject to paragraph (2), the Administrator shall establish qualification requirements, including education requirements, for the following positions:
        (i) Entry-level positions in the General Schedule Contracting series (GS–1102).
        (ii) Senior positions in the General Schedule Contracting series (GS–1102).
        (iii) All positions in the General Schedule Purchasing series (GS–1105).
        (iv) Positions in other General Schedule series in which significant acquisition-related functions are performed.
      (B) Subject to paragraph (2), the Administrator shall prescribe the manner and extent to which such qualification requirements shall apply to any person serving in a position described in subparagraph (A) at the time such requirements are established.
    (2) Relationship to requirements applicable to defense acquisition workforce
       The Administrator shall establish qualification requirements and make prescriptions under paragraph (1) that are comparable to those established for the same or equivalent positions pursuant to chapter 87 of title 10 with appropriate modifications.
    (3) Approval of requirements
       The Administrator shall submit any requirement established or prescription made under paragraph (1) to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management for approval. If the Director does not disapprove a requirement or prescription within 30 days after the date on which the Director receives it, the requirement or prescription is deemed to be approved by the Director.
  (h) Education and training
    (1) Funding levels
      (A) The head of an executive agency shall set forth separately the funding levels requested for education and training of the acquisition workforce in the budget justification documents submitted in support of the President“s budget submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31.
      (B) Funds appropriated for education and training under this section may not be obligated for any other purpose.
    (2) Tuition assistance
       The head of an executive agency may provide tuition reimbursement in education (including a full-time course of study leading to a degree) in accordance with section 4107 of title 5 for personnel serving in acquisition positions in the agency.
    (3) Acquisition workforce training fund
      (A) The Administrator of General Services shall establish an acquisition workforce training fund. The Administrator shall manage the fund through the Federal Acquisition Institute to support the training of the acquisition workforce of the executive agencies other than the Department of Defense. The Administrator shall consult with the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy in managing the fund.
      (B) There shall be credited to the acquisition workforce training fund 5 percent of the fees collected by executive agencies (other than the Department of Defense) under the following contracts:
        (i) Governmentwide task and delivery-order contracts entered into under sections 253h and 253i of this title.
        (ii) Governmentwide contracts for the acquisition of information technology as defined in section 11101 of title 40 and multiagency acquisition contracts for such technology authorized by section 11314 of such title.
        (iii) Multiple-award schedule contracts entered into by the Administrator of General Services.
      (C) The head of an executive agency that administers a contract described in subparagraph (B) shall remit to the General Services Administration the amount required to be credited to the fund with respect to such contract at the end of each quarter of the fiscal year.
      (D) The Administrator of General Services, through the Office of Federal Acquisition Policy, shall ensure that funds collected for training under this section are not used for any purpose other than the purpose specified in subparagraph (A).
      (E) Amounts credited to the fund shall be in addition to funds requested and appropriated for education and training referred to in paragraph (1).
      (F) Amounts credited to the fund shall remain available to be expended only in the fiscal year for which credited and the two succeeding fiscal years.
      (G) This paragraph shall cease to be effective five years after November 24, 2003.
