  (a) Establishment
     The Administrator of General Services, pursuant to policies established by the Office of Management and Budget, and in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall establish a Governmentwide Contingency Contracting Corps (in this section referred to as the ””Corps““). The members of the Corps shall be available for deployment in responding to an emergency or major disaster, or a contingency operation, both within or outside the continental United States.
  (b) Applicability
     The authorities provided in this section apply with respect to any procurement of property or services by or for an executive agency that, as determined by the head of such executive agency, are to be used–
    (1) in support of a contingency operation as defined in section 101(a)(13) of title 10; or
    (2) to respond to an emergency or major disaster as defined in section 5122 of title 42.
  (c) Membership
     Membership in the Corps shall be voluntary and open to all Federal employees and members of the Armed Forces who are members of the Federal acquisition workforce.
  (d) Education and training
     The Administrator may, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Acquisition Institute and the Chief Acquisition Officers Council, establish educational and training requirements for members of the Corps. Education and training carried out pursuant to such requirements shall be paid for from funds available in the acquisition workforce training fund established pursuant to section 433(h)(3) of this title.
  (e) Salary
     The salary for a member of the Corps shall be paid–
    (1) in the case of a member of the Armed Forces, out of funds available to the Armed Force concerned; and
    (2) in the case of a Federal employee, out of funds available to the employing agency.
  (f) Authority to deploy the Corps
    (1) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall have the authority, upon request by an executive agency, to determine when members of the Corps shall be deployed, with the concurrence of the head of the agency or agencies employing the members to be deployed.
    (2) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary“s designee from deploying members of the Armed Forces or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense in support of a contingency operation as defined in section 101(a)(13) of title 10.
  (g) Annual report
    (1) In general
       The Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives an annual report on the status of the Contingency Contracting Corps as of September 30 of each fiscal year.
    (2) Content
       At a minimum, each report under paragraph (1) shall include the number of members of the Contingency Contracting Corps, the total cost of operating the program, the number of deployments of members of the program, and the performance of members of the program in deployment.
