  (a) T4Liability of Responsible PartyK.–A party responsible for a violation of a contract provision required under section 6703(1) or (2) of this title or a violation of section 6704 of this title is liable for an amount equal to the sum of any deduction, rebate, refund, or underpayment of compensation due any employee engaged in the performance of the contract.
  (b) T4Recovery of Amounts Underpaid to Employees.–
    (1) T4Withholding accrued payments due on contractsK.–The total amount determined under subsection (a) to be due any employee engaged in the performance of a contract may be withheld from accrued payments due on the contract or on any other contract between the same contractor and the Federal Government. The amount withheld shall be held in a deposit fund. On order of the Secretary, the compensation found by the Secretary or the head of a Federal agency to be due an underpaid employee pursuant to this chapter shall be paid from the deposit fund directly to the underpaid employee.
    (2) T4Bringing actions against contractorsK.–If the accrued payments withheld under the terms of the contract are insufficient to reimburse a service employee with respect to whom there has been a failure to pay the compensation required pursuant to this chapter, the Federal Government may bring action against the contractor, subcontractor, or any sureties in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover the remaining amount of underpayment. Any amount recovered shall be held in the deposit fund and shall be paid, on order of the Secretary, directly to the underpaid employee. Any amount not paid to an employee because of inability to do so within 3 years shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
  (c) T4Cancellation and Alternative CompletionK.–In addition to other actions in accordance with this section, when a violation of any contract stipulation is found, the Federal agency that made the contract may cancel the contract on written notice to the original contractor. The Federal Government may then make other contracts or arrangements for the completion of the original contract, charging any additional cost to the original contractor.
  (d) T4Enforcement of SectionK.–In accordance with regulations prescribed pursuant to section 6707(a)–(d) of this title, the Secretary or the head of a Federal agency may carry out this section.
