  (a) T4Accelerated Procedure WhereK $100,000 T4or Less in DisputeK.–The rules of each agency board shall include a procedure for the accelerated disposition of any appeal from a decision of a contracting officer where the amount in dispute is $100,000 or less. The accelerated procedure is applicable at the sole election of the contractor. An appeal under the accelerated procedure shall be resolved, whenever possible, within 180 days from the date the contractor elects to use the procedure.
  (b) T4Small Claims Procedure.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The rules of each agency board shall include a procedure for the expedited disposition of any appeal from a decision of a contracting officer where the amount in dispute is $50,000 or less, or in the case of a small business concern (as defined in the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) and regulations under that Act), $150,000 or less. The small claims procedure is applicable at the sole election of the contractor.
    (2) T4Simplified rules of procedureK.–The small claims procedure shall provide for simplified rules of procedure to facilitate the decision of any appeal. An appeal under the small claims procedure may be decided by a single member of the agency board with such concurrences as may be provided by rule or regulation.
    (3) T4Time of decisionK.–An appeal under the small claims procedure shall be resolved, whenever possible, within 120 days from the date the contractor elects to use the procedure.
    (4) T4Finality of decisionK.–A decision against the Federal Government or against the contractor reached under the small claims procedure is final and conclusive and may not be set aside except in cases of fraud.
    (5) T4No precedentK.–Administrative determinations and final decisions under this subsection have no value as precedent for future cases under this chapter.
    (6) T4Review of requisite amounts in controversyK.–The Administrator, from time to time, may review the dollar amounts specified in paragraph (1) and adjust the amounts in accordance with economic indexes selected by the Administrator.
