  (a) Establishment; management of support activities of Bureau
     Within 30 days after November 1, 1985, there shall be established in the Treasury of the United States a working capital fund to assist in the management of certain support activities of the Bureau of Reclamation (hereafter referred to as the ””Bureau““), Department of the Interior. The fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation for expenses necessary for furnishing materials, supplies, equipment, work, and services in support of Bureau programs, and, as authorized by law, to agencies of the Federal Government and others. Such expenses may include the acquisition, replacement, and operation of a central computer and related automatic data processing equipment; engineering services; payroll and other management services; acquisition and replacement of equipment and facilities, including the purchase, lease, or rent of motor vehicles and aircraft within any limitations set forth in appropriations made to carry out the functions of the Bureau and such other activities as may be approved by the Director, Office of Management and Budget.
  (b) Fund credits; transfers to fund
     The fund shall be credited with appropriations made for the purpose of providing or increasing capital. There are authorized to be transferred to the fund (at fair and reasonable values at the time of transfer) the inventories, equipment, receivables, and other assets, less the liabilities, related to the functions to be financed by the fund as determined by the Secretary of the Interior.
  (c) Use of funds to provide materials, supplies, equipment, work, and services
     The fund shall be credited with appropriations and other funds of the Bureau, and other agencies of the Department of the Interior, other Federal agencies, and other sources, for providing materials, supplies, equipment, work, and services as authorized by law. Such payments may be made in advance or upon performance.
  (d) Charges to users
     Charges to users will be at rates approximately equal to the costs of furnishing the materials, supplies, equipment, facilities, and services (including such items as depreciation of equipment and accrued annual leave).
  (e) Authorization of appropriations
     There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
  (f) Unnecessary funds covered into miscellaneous receipts of Treasury
     Funds that are not necessary to carry out the activities to be financed by the fund, as determined by the Secretary, shall be covered into miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury.
