  (a) Acquisition of lands of Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community and Fort McDowell-Apache Indian Community; relocation; eminent domain
     The Secretary shall designate the lands of the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, Arizona, and the Fort McDowell-Apache Indian Community, Arizona, or interests therein, and any allotted lands or interests therein within said communities which he determines are necessary for use and occupancy by the United States for the construction, operation, and maintenance of Orme Dam and Reservoir, or alternative. The Secretary shall offer to pay the fair market value of the lands and interests designated, inclusive of improvements. In addition, the Secretary shall offer to pay toward the cost of relocating or replacing such improvements not to exceed $500,000 in the aggregate, and the amount offered for the actual relocation or replacement of a residence shall not exceed the difference between the fair market value of the residence and $8,000. Each community and each affected allottee shall have six months in which to accept or reject the Secretary“s offer. If the Secretary“s offer is rejected, the United States may proceed to acquire the property interests involved through eminent domain proceedings in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona under sections 3113 and 3114(a) to (d) of title 40. Upon acceptance in writing of the Secretary“s offer, or upon the filing of a declaration of taking in eminent domain proceedings, title to the lands or interests involved, and the right to possession thereof, shall vest in the United States. Upon a determination by the Secretary that all or any part of such lands or interests are no longer necessary for the purpose for which acquired, title to such lands or interests shall be restored to the appropriate community upon repayment to the Federal Government of the amounts paid by it for such lands.
  (b) Rights of former owners to use or lease land
     Title to any land or easement acquired pursuant to this section shall be subject to the right of the former owner to use or lease the land for purposes not inconsistent with the construction, operation, and maintenance of the project, as determined by, and under terms and conditions prescribed by, the Secretary. Such right shall include the right to extract and dispose of minerals. The determination of fair market value under subsection (a) of this section shall reflect the right to extract and dispose of minerals and all other uses permitted by this section.
  (c) Addition of land to Fort McDowell Indian Reservation
     In view of the fact that a substantial portion of the lands of the Fort McDowell Mohave-Apache Indian Community will be required for Orme Dam and Reservoir, or alternative, the Secretary shall, in addition to the compensation provided for in subsection (a) of this section, designate and add to the Fort McDowell Indian Reservation twenty-five hundred acres of suitable lands in the vicinity of the reservation that are under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior in township 4 north, range 7 east; township 5 north, range 7 east; and township 3 north, range 7 east, Gila and Salt River base meridian, Arizona. Title to lands so added to the reservation shall be held by the United States in trust for the Fort McDowell Mohave-Apache Indian Community.
  (d) Recreational facilities developed and operated by Indian communities along Orme Reservoir shoreline
     Each community shall have a right, in accordance with plans approved by the Secretary, to develop and operate recreational facilities along the part of the shoreline of the Orme Reservoir located on or adjacent to its reservation, including land added to the Fort McDowell Reservation as provided in subsection (b) of this section, subject to rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary governing the recreation development of the reservoir. Recreation development of the entire reservoir and federally owned lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary adjacent thereto shall be in accordance with a master recreation plan approved by the Secretary. The members of each community shall have nonexclusive personal rights to hunt and fish on or in the reservoir without charge to the same extent they are now authorized to hunt and fish, but no community shall have the right to exclude others from the reservoir except by control of access through its reservation or any right to require payment by members of the public except for the use of community lands or facilities.
  (e) Exemption of funds from State and Federal income taxes
     All funds paid pursuant to this section, and any per capita distribution thereof, shall be exempt from all forms of State and Federal income taxes.
