  (a) Authorization of construction
     To assist in meeting salinity control objectives of Minute No. 242 during an interim period, the Secretary is authorized to construct a new concrete-lined canal or, to line the presently unlined portion of the Coachella Canal of the Boulder Canyon project, California, from station 2 plus 26 to the beginning of siphon numbered 7, a length of approximately forty-nine miles. The United States shall be entitled to temporary use of a quantity of water, for the purpose of meeting the salinity control objectives of Minute No. 242, during an interim period, equal to the quantity of water conserved by constructing or lining the said canal. The interim period shall commence on completion of construction or lining said canal and shall end the first year that the Secretary delivers main stream Colorado River water to California in an amount less than the sum of the quantities requested by (1) the California agencies under contracts made pursuant to section 617d of this title, and (2) Federal establishments to meet their water rights acquired in California in accordance with the Supreme Court decree in Arizona against California (376 U.S. 340).
  (b) Repayment
     The charges for total construction shall be repayable without interest in equal annual installments over a period of forty years beginning in the year following completion of construction: T3ProvidedK, That, repayment shall be prorated between the United States and the Coachella Valley County Water District, and the Secretary is authorized to enter into a repayment contract with Coachella Valley County Water District for that purpose. Such contract shall provide that annual repayment installments shall be nonreimbursable during the interim period, defined in subsection (a) of this section and shall provide that after the interim period, said annual repayment installments or portions thereof, shall be paid by Coachella Valley County Water District.
  (c) Acquisition of private lands
     The Secretary is authorized to acquire by purchase, eminent domain, or exchange private lands or interests therein, as may be determined by him to be appropriate, within the Imperial Irrigation District on the Imperial East Mesa which receive, or which have been granted rights to receive, water from Imperial Irrigation District“s capacity in the Coachella Canal. Costs of such acquisitions shall be nonreimbursable and the Secretary shall return such lands to the public domain. The United States shall not acquire any water rights by reason of this land acquisition.
  (d) Credit to Imperial Irrigation District against final payments for relinquished capacity in Coachella Canal
     The Secretary is authorized to credit Imperial Irrigation District against its final payments for certain outstanding construction charges payable to the United States on account of capacity to be relinquished in the Coachella Canal as a result of the canal lining program, all as determined by the Secretary: T3ProvidedK, That, relinquishment of capacity shall not affect the established basis for allocating operation and maintenance costs of the main All-American Canal to existing contractors.
  (e) Transfer of lands to Cocopah Tribe of Indians
     The Secretary is authorized and directed to cede the following land to the Cocopah Tribe of Indians, subject to rights-of-way for existing levees, to be held in trust by the United States for the Cocopah Tribe of Indians:
     Township 9 south, range 25 west of the Gila and Salt River meridian, Arizona;
     Section 25: Lots 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23;
     Section 26: Lots 1, 12, 13, 14, and 15;
     Section 27: Lot 3; and all accretion to the above described lands.
     The Secretary is authorized and directed to construct three bridges, one of which shall be capable of accommodating heavy vehicular traffic, over the portion of the bypass drain which crosses the reservation of the Cocopah Tribe of Indians. The transfer of lands to the Cocopah Indian Reservation and the construction of bridges across the bypass drain shall constitute full and complete payment to said tribe for the rights-of-way required for construction of the bypass drain and electrical transmission lines for works authorized by this subchapter.
