  (a) Terms and conditions
     The terms and conditions of this section are solely applicable to the lands described in paragraph A(1) of the Agreement, which is defined by section 1629(a)(1) of this title and modified by section 1629 of this title, and shall not affect the relinquishment by NANA described in section B(1) of such Agreement.
  (b) Conveyance of lands to United States
     NANA Regional Corporation, Inc. (””NANA““), may convey by quit-claim deed to the United States all of its interest in the surface and subsurface estate in any lands described in subsection (a) of this section: T3Provided, howeverK, That NANA can relinquish only lands that are compact and contiguous to other public lands within the Krusenstern National Monument and, if the lands to be relinquished have been disturbed by NANA, the Secretary must first determine that such disturbance has not rendered the lands incompatible with Monument values. Whenever NANA executes a quit-claim deed pursuant to this section, it shall be entitled to designate and have conveyed to it any lands outside the boundaries of the Cape Krusenstern National Monument and any other conservation system unit, as established and defined by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96–487; 94 Stat. 2371, et seq.), covered by any of its pending selection applications filed under the entitlement provisions of either section 1611(b), 1611(c) or 1613(h)(8) of this title. Lands conveyed to NANA pursuant to this subsection shall be of a like estate and equal in acreage to that conveyed by NANA to the United States. The lands conveyed to NANA pursuant to this subsection shall be in exchange for the lands conveyed by NANA to the United States and there shall be no change in the charges previously made to NANA“s land entitlements with respect to the lands conveyed by NANA to the United States. Lands received by NANA pursuant to this subsection are Settlement Act lands.
  (c) Relinquishment of interests under filed selection applications
     NANA may relinquish any interest it has under selection applications filed pursuant to this chapter in the surface and subsurface estate in lands described in subsection (a) of this section by formally withdrawing such application pursuant to this section: T3Provided, howeverK, That NANA can relinquish only interests in lands that are compact and contiguous to other public lands within the Krusenstern National Monument and, if the lands have been disturbed by NANA, the Secretary must first determine that such disturbance has not rendered the lands incompatible with Monument values. Whenever NANA formally withdraws a selection application pursuant to this section, it shall be entitled to designate and have conveyed to it lands outside the boundaries of Cape Krusenstern National Monument and any other conservation system unit, as established and defined by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96–487; 94 Stat. 2371, et seq.) pursuant to any of its pending selection applications filed under either section 1611(b), 1611(c) or 1613(h)(8) of this title. Lands conveyed to NANA under this subsection shall be of a like estate and equal in acreage to the interest which NANA relinquished, and when the lands are conveyed to NANA, the conveyance shall be charged against the same entitlement of NANA as if the lands had been conveyed pursuant to the relinquished selection applications. Lands received by NANA pursuant to this subsection are Settlement Act lands.
  (d) Termination date
     The provisions of this section shall remain in effect only until December 18, 1991.
  (e) Effect on NANA“s selection rights or entitlement to lands
     Nothing in this section shall be deemed to alter or amend in any way NANA“s selection rights or to increase or diminish NANA“s total entitlement to lands pursuant to this chapter.
