  (a) Establishment
     To conserve and protect natural values and to provide scientific knowledge, education, and interpretation for the benefit of future generations, there is established the Fossil Forest Research Natural Area (referred to in this section as the ””Area““), consisting of the approximately 2,770 acres in the Farmington District of the Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico, as generally depicted on a map entitled ””Fossil Forest““, dated June 1983.
  (b) Map and legal description
    (1) In general
       As soon as practicable after November 12, 1996, the Secretary of the Interior shall file a map and legal description of the Area with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.
    (2) Force and effect
       The map and legal description described in paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act.
    (3) Technical corrections
       The Secretary of the Interior may correct clerical, typographical, and cartographical errors in the map and legal description subsequent to filing the map pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (4) Public inspection
       The map and legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior.
  (c) Management
    (1) In general
       The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall manage the Area–
      (A) to protect the resources within the Area; and
      (B) in accordance with this Act, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and other applicable provisions of law.
    (2) Mining
      (A) Withdrawal
         Subject to valid existing rights, the lands within the Area are withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the mining laws and from disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, and mineral material sales.
      (B) Coal preference rights
         The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to issue coal leases in New Mexico in exchange for any preference right coal lease application within the Area. Such exchanges shall be made in accordance with applicable existing laws and regulations relating to coal leases after a determination has been made by the Secretary that the applicant is entitled to a preference right lease and that the exchange is in the public interest.
      (C) Oil and gas leases
         Operations on oil and gas leases issued prior to November 12, 1996, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of Group 3100 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (including section 3162.5–1), and such other terms, stipulations, and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior considers necessary to avoid significant disturbance of the land surface or impairment of the natural, educational, and scientific research values of the Area in existence on November 12, 1996.
    (3) Grazing
       Livestock grazing on lands within the Area may not be permitted.
  (d) Inventory
     Not later than 3 full fiscal years after November 12, 1996, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall develop a baseline inventory of all categories of fossil resources within the Area. After the inventory is developed, the Secretary shall conduct monitoring surveys at intervals specified in the management plan developed for the Area in accordance with subsection (e) of this section.
  (e) Management plan
    (1) In general
       Not later than 5 years after November 12, 1996, the Secretary of the Interior shall develop and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a management plan that describes the appropriate use of the Area consistent with this Act.
    (2) Contents
       The management plan shall include–
      (A) a plan for the implementation of a continuing cooperative program with other agencies and groups for–
        (i) laboratory and field interpretation; and
        (ii) public education about the resources and values of the Area (including vertebrate fossils);
      (B) provisions for vehicle management that are consistent with the purpose of the Area and that provide for the use of vehicles to the minimum extent necessary to accomplish an individual scientific project;
      (C) procedures for the excavation and collection of fossil remains, including botanical fossils, and the use of motorized and mechanical equipment to the minimum extent necessary to accomplish an individual scientific project; and
      (D) mitigation and reclamation standards for activities that disturb the surface to the detriment of scenic and environmental values.
