  (a) Authority of Secretary
     The Secretary may enter into contracts, financial assistance agreements, and such other agreements, and promulgate such regulations, as are necessary to carry out this subchapter.
  (b) Transfer of projects
     Nothing in this subchapter authorizes the transfer of pre-existing facilities or pre-existing components of any water system from Federal to private ownership or from private to Federal ownership.
  (c) Federal reclamation law
     Nothing in this subchapter supersedes or amends any Federal law associated with a project, or portion of a project, constructed under Federal reclamation law.
  (d) Interagency coordination
     The Secretary shall coordinate the Program carried out under this subchapter with existing Federal and State rural water and wastewater programs to facilitate the most efficient and effective solution to meeting the water needs of the non-Federal project sponsors.
  (e) Multiple Indian tribes
     In any case in which a contract is entered into with, or a grant is made, to \1\N an organization to perform services benefitting more than 1 Indian tribe under this subchapter, the approval of each such Indian tribe shall be a prerequisite to entering into the contract or making the grant.
  (f) Ownership of facilities
     Title to any facility planned, designed, and recommended for construction under this subchapter shall be held by the non-Federal project entity.
  (g) Expedited procedures
     If the Secretary determines that a community to be served by a proposed rural water supply project has urgent and compelling water needs, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, expedite appraisal investigations and reports conducted under section 2404 of this title and feasibility studies and reports conducted under section 2405 of this title.
  (h) Effect on State water law
    (1) In general
       Nothing in this subchapter preempts or affects State water law or an interstate compact governing water.
    (2) Compliance required
       The Secretary shall comply with State water laws in carrying out this subchapter.
      (i) No additional requirements
         Nothing in this subchapter requires a feasibility study for, or imposes any other additional requirements with respect to, rural water supply projects or programs that are authorized before December 22, 2006.
