  (a) Authority to enter into share-in-savings contracts
    (1) The head of an executive agency may enter into a share-in-savings contract for information technology (as defined in section 11101(6) of title 40) in which the Government awards a contract to improve mission-related or administrative processes or to accelerate the achievement of its mission and share with the contractor in savings achieved through contract performance.
    (2)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a share-in-savings contract shall be awarded for a period of not more than five years.
      (B) A share-in-savings contract may be awarded for a period greater than five years, but not more than 10 years, if the head of the agency determines in writing prior to award of the contract that–
        (i) the level of risk to be assumed and the investment to be undertaken by the contractor is likely to inhibit the government from obtaining the needed information technology competitively at a fair and reasonable price if the contract is limited in duration to a period of five years or less; and
        (ii) usage of the information technology to be acquired is likely to continue for a period of time sufficient to generate reasonable benefit for the government.
    (3) Contracts awarded pursuant to the authority of this section shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be performance-based contracts that identify objective outcomes and contain performance standards that will be used to measure achievement and milestones that must be met before payment is made.
    (4) Contracts awarded pursuant to the authority of this section shall include a provision containing a quantifiable baseline that is to be the basis upon which a savings share ratio is established that governs the amount of payment a contractor is to receive under the contract. Before commencement of performance of such a contract, the senior procurement executive of the agency shall determine in writing that the terms of the provision are quantifiable and will likely yield value to the Government.
    (5)      (A) The head of the agency may retain savings realized through the use of a share-in-savings contract under this section that are in excess of the total amount of savings paid to the contractor under the contract, but may not retain any portion of such savings that is attributable to a decrease in the number of civilian employees of the Federal Government performing the function. Except as provided in subparagraph (B), savings shall be credited to the appropriation or fund against which charges were made to carry out the contract and shall be used for information technology.
      (B) Amounts retained by the agency under this subsection shall–
        (i) without further appropriation, remain available until expended; and
        (ii) be applied first to fund any contingent liabilities associated with share-in-savings procurements that are not fully funded.
  (b) Cancellation and termination
    (1) If funds are not made available for the continuation of a share-in-savings contract entered into under this section in a subsequent fiscal year, the contract shall be canceled or terminated. The costs of cancellation or termination may be paid out of–
      (A) appropriations available for the performance of the contract;
      (B) appropriations available for acquisition of the information technology procured under the contract, and not otherwise obligated; or
      (C) funds subsequently appropriated for payments of costs of cancellation or termination, subject to the limitations in paragraph (3).
    (2) The amount payable in the event of cancellation or termination of a share-in-savings contract shall be negotiated with the contractor at the time the contract is entered into.
    (3)      (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the head of an executive agency may enter into share-in-savings contracts under this section in any given fiscal year even if funds are not made specifically available for the full costs of cancellation or termination of the contract if funds are available and sufficient to make payments with respect to the first fiscal year of the contract and the following conditions are met regarding the funding of cancellation and termination liability:
        (i) The amount of unfunded contingent liability for the contract does not exceed the lesser of–
          (I) 25 percent of the estimated costs of a cancellation or termination; or
          (II) $5,000,000.
        (ii) Unfunded contingent liability in excess of $1,000,000 has been approved by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget or the Director“s designee.
      (B) The aggregate number of share-in-savings contracts that may be entered into under subparagraph (A) by all executive agencies to which this subchapter \1\N applies in a fiscal year may not exceed 5 in each of fiscal years 2003, 2004, and 2005.
  (c) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) The term ””contractor““ means a private entity that enters into a contract with an agency.
    (2) The term ””savings““ means–
      (A) monetary savings to an agency; or
      (B) savings in time or other benefits realized by the agency, including enhanced revenues (other than enhanced revenues from the collection of fees, taxes, debts, claims, or other amounts owed the Federal Government).
    (3) The term ””share-in-savings contract““ means a contract under which–
      (A) a contractor provides solutions for–
        (i) improving the agency“s mission-related or administrative processes; or
        (ii) accelerating the achievement of agency missions; and
      (B) the head of the agency pays the contractor an amount equal to a portion of the savings derived by the agency from–
        (i) any improvements in mission-related or administrative processes that result from implementation of the solution; or
        (ii) acceleration of achievement of agency missions.
  (d) Termination
     No share-in-savings contracts may be entered into under this section after September 30, 2005.
