   In this subchapter:
  (1) Inspection
     The term ””inspection““ means an inspection of a project facility carried out by the Secretary–
    (A) to assess and determine the general condition of the project facility; and
    (B) to estimate the value of property, and the size of the population, that would be at risk if the project facility fails, is breached, or otherwise allows flooding to occur.
  (2) Project facility
     The term ””project facility““ means any part or incidental feature of a project, excluding high- and significant-hazard dams, constructed under the Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 U.S.C. 371 et seq.) \1\N.
  (3) Reserved works
     The term ””reserved works““ mean \2\N any project facility at which the Secretary carries out the operation and maintenance of the project facility.
  (4) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation.
  (5) Transferred works
     The term ””transferred works““ means a project facility, the operation and maintenance of which is carried out by a non-Federal entity, under the provisions of a formal operation and maintenance transfer contract.
  (6) Transferred works operating entity
     The term ””transferred works operating entity““ means the organization which is contractually responsible for operation and maintenance of transferred works.
  (7) Extraordinary operation and maintenance work
     The term ””extraordinary operation and maintenance work““ means major, nonrecurring maintenance to Reclamation-owned or operated facilities, or facility components, that is–
    (A) intended to ensure the continued safe, dependable, and reliable delivery of authorized project benefits; and
    (B) greater than 10 percent of the contractor“s or the transferred works operating entity“s annual operation and maintenance budget for the facility, or greater than $100,000.
