  (a) In this section–
    (1) ””bankruptcy petition preparer““ means a person, other than an attorney or an employee of an attorney, who prepares for compensation a document for filing; and
    (2) ””document for filing““ means a petition or any other document prepared for filing by a debtor in a United States bankruptcy court or a United States district court in connection with a case under this title.
  (b)    (1) A bankruptcy petition preparer who prepares a document for filing shall sign the document and print on the document the preparer“s name and address.
    (2) A bankruptcy petition preparer who fails to comply with paragraph (1) may be fined not more than $500 for each such failure unless the failure is due to reasonable cause.
  (c)    (1) A bankruptcy petition preparer who prepares a document for filing shall place on the document, after the preparer“s signature, an identifying number that identifies individuals who prepared the document.
    (2) For purposes of this section, the identifying number of a bankruptcy petition preparer shall be the Social Security account number of each individual who prepared the document or assisted in its preparation.
    (3) A bankruptcy petition preparer who fails to comply with paragraph (1) may be fined not more than $500 for each such failure unless the failure is due to reasonable cause.
  (d)    (1) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall, not later than the time at which a document for filing is presented for the debtor“s signature, furnish to the debtor a copy of the document.
    (2) A bankruptcy petition preparer who fails to comply with paragraph (1) may be fined not more than $500 for each such failure unless the failure is due to reasonable cause.
  (e)    (1) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall not execute any document on behalf of a debtor.
    (2) A bankruptcy petition preparer may be fined not more than $500 for each document executed in violation of paragraph (1).
  (f)    (1) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall not use the word ””legal““ or any similar term in any advertisements, or advertise under any category that includes the word ””legal““ or any similar term.
    (2) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall be fined not more than $500 for each violation of paragraph (1).
  (g)    (1) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall not collect or receive any payment from the debtor or on behalf of the debtor for the court fees in connection with filing the petition.
    (2) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall be fined not more than $500 for each violation of paragraph (1).
  (h)    (1) Within 10 days after the date of the filing of a petition, a bankruptcy petition preparer shall file a declaration under penalty of perjury disclosing any fee received from or on behalf of the debtor within 12 months immediately prior to the filing of the case, and any unpaid fee charged to the debtor.
    (2) The court shall disallow and order the immediate turnover to the bankruptcy trustee of any fee referred to in paragraph (1) found to be in excess of the value of services rendered for the documents prepared. An individual debtor may exempt any funds so recovered under section 522(b).
    (3) The debtor, the trustee, a creditor, or the United States trustee may file a motion for an order under paragraph (2).
    (4) A bankruptcy petition preparer shall be fined not more than $500 for each failure to comply with a court order to turn over funds within 30 days of service of such order.
      (i)        (1) If a bankruptcy case or related proceeding is dismissed because of the failure to file bankruptcy papers, including papers specified in section 521(1) of this title, the negligence or intentional disregard of this title or the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure by a bankruptcy petition preparer, or if a bankruptcy petition preparer violates this section or commits any fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive act, the bankruptcy court shall certify that fact to the district court, and the district court, on motion of the debtor, the trustee, or a creditor and after a hearing, shall order the bankruptcy petition preparer to pay to the debtor–
          (A) the debtor“s actual damages;
          (B) the greater of–
            (i) $2,000; or
            (ii) twice the amount paid by the debtor to the bankruptcy petition preparer for the preparer“s services; and
          (C) reasonable attorneys“ fees and costs in moving for damages under this subsection.
        (2) If the trustee or creditor moves for damages on behalf of the debtor under this subsection, the bankruptcy petition preparer shall be ordered to pay the movant the additional amount of $1,000 plus reasonable attorneys“ fees and costs incurred.
      (j)        (1) A debtor for whom a bankruptcy petition preparer has prepared a document for filing, the trustee, a creditor, or the United States trustee in the district in which the bankruptcy petition preparer resides, has conducted business, or the United States trustee in any other district in which the debtor resides may bring a civil action to enjoin a bankruptcy petition preparer from engaging in any conduct in violation of this section or from further acting as a bankruptcy petition preparer.
        (2)          (A) In an action under paragraph (1), if the court finds that–
            (i) a bankruptcy petition preparer has–
              (I) engaged in conduct in violation of this section or of any provision of this title a violation of which subjects a person to criminal penalty;
              (II) misrepresented the preparer“s experience or education as a bankruptcy petition preparer; or
              (III) engaged in any other fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive conduct; and
            (ii) injunctive relief is appropriate to prevent the recurrence of such conduct,
               the court may enjoin the bankruptcy petition preparer from engaging in such conduct.
          (B) If the court finds that a bankruptcy petition preparer has continually engaged in conduct described in subclause (I), (II), or (III) of clause (i) and that an injunction prohibiting such conduct would not be sufficient to prevent such person“s interference with the proper administration of this title, or has not paid a penalty imposed under this section, the court may enjoin the person from acting as a bankruptcy petition preparer.
        (3) The court shall award to a debtor, trustee, or creditor that brings a successful action under this subsection reasonable attorney“s \1\N fees and costs of the action, to be paid by the bankruptcy petition preparer.
      (k) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit activities that are otherwise prohibited by law, including rules and laws that prohibit the unauthorized practice of law.
