  (a) Establishment; membership; chairperson
     There is established within the Office of the President the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””Board““). The Board shall consist of nine members, appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of whom not more than five shall be members of the same political party. The President shall designate one member of the Board to serve as chairperson.
  (b) Review; recommendations
     The Board shall review the effectiveness of the activities carried out under this subchapter and the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.] and shall make recommendations to the President and the Broadcasting Board of Governors as it may consider necessary.
  (c) Terms; vacancies
     In appointing the initial voting members of the Board, the President shall designate three members to serve for a term of three years, three members to serve for a term of two years, and three members to serve for a term of one year. Thereafter, the term of each member of the Board shall be three years. The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, members to fill vacancies occurring prior to the expiration of a term, in which case the members so appointed shall serve for the remainder of such term. Any member whose term has expired may serve until his successor has been appointed and qualified.
  (d) Ex officio members
     The head of the Cuba Service and the head of the Television Marti Service shall serve, ex officio, as members of the Board.
  (e) Compensation; travel expenses
     Members of the Board appointed by the President shall, while attending meetings of the Board or while engaged in duties relating to such meetings or in other activities of the Board pursuant to this section, including traveltime, be entitled to receive compensation equal to the daily equivalent of the compensation prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5. While away from their homes or regular places of business they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently. The ex officio members of the Board shall not be entitled to any compensation under this section, but may be allowed travel expenses as provided in the preceding sentence.
  (f) Procurement powers of Board
     The Board may, to the extent it deems necessary to carry out its functions under this section, procure supplies, services, and other personal property, including specialized electronic equipment.
  (g) Indefinite life span of Board
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board shall remain in effect indefinitely.
  (h) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated $130,000 to carry out the provisions of this section.
