  (a) Establishment
    (1) There is established an advisory commission to be known as the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
    (2) The Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The members of the Commission shall represent the public interest and shall be selected from a cross section of educational, communications, cultural, scientific, technical, public service, labor, business, and professional backgrounds. Not more than four members shall be from any one political party.
    (3) The term of each member shall be 3 years, except that of the original seven appointments, two shall be for a term of 1 year and two shall be for a term of 2 years.
    (4) Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which a predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term. Upon the expiration of a member“s term of office, such member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
    (5) The President shall designate a member to chair the Commission.
  (b) Staff
     The Commission shall have a staff director who shall be appointed by the chairperson of the Commission. Subject to such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the Commission, the chairperson of the Commission may–
    (1) appoint such additional personnel for the staff of the Commission as the chairperson considers necessary; and
    (2) procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay payable for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5.
  (c) Duties and responsibilities
    (1) The Commission shall formulate and recommend to the Director of the United States Information Agency, the Secretary of State, and the President policies and programs to carry out the functions vested in the Director or the Agency, and shall appraise the effectiveness of policies and programs of the Agency.
    (2) The Commission shall submit to the Congress, the President, the Secretary of State, and the Director of the United States Information Agency annual reports on programs and activities carried out by the Agency, including appraisals, where feasible, as to the effectiveness of the several programs. The Commission shall also include in such reports such recommendations as shall have been made by the Commission to the Director for effectuating the purposes of the Agency, and the action taken to carry out such recommendations.
    (3) The Commission may also submit such other reports to the Congress as it considers appropriate, and shall make reports to the public in the United States and abroad to develop a better understanding of and support for the programs conducted by the Agency.
    (4) The Commission“s reports to the Congress shall include assessments of the degree to which the scholarly integrity and nonpolitical character of the educational and cultural exchange activities vested in the Director of the United States Information Agency have been maintained, and assessments of the attitudes of foreign scholars and governments regarding such activities.
  (d) Limitation on authority
     The Commission shall have no authority with respect to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board or the United States National Commission for UNESCO.
