  (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law enacted before November 29, 1973, no money appropriated to carry out this chapter shall be available for obligation or expenditure–
    (1) unless the appropriation thereof has been previously authorized by law; or
    (2) in excess of an amount previously prescribed by law.
  (b) To the extent that legislation enacted after the making of an appropriation to carry out this chapter authorizes the obligation or expenditure thereof, the limitation contained in subsection (a) of this section shall have no effect.
  (c) The provisions of this section shall not be superseded except by a provision of law enacted after November 29, 1973, which specifically repeals, modifies, or supersedes the provisions of this section.
  (d) The provisions of this section shall not apply with respect to appropriations made available under the joint resolution entitled ””Joint resolution making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1974, and for other purposes““, approved July 1, 1973, and any provision of law specifically amending such joint resolution enacted through October 16, 1973.
  (e) The provisions of this section shall not apply to, or affect in any manner, permanent appropriations, trust funds, and other similar accounts administered by the United States Information Agency as authorized by law.
  (f)    (1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), funds authorized to be appropriated for any account of the United States Information Agency in the Department of State and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, for the second fiscal year of any 2-year authorization cycle may be appropriated for such second fiscal year for any other account of the United States Information Agency.
    (2) Amounts appropriated for the ””Salaries and Expenses““ and ””Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs““ accounts may not exceed by more than 5 percent the amount specifically authorized to be appropriated for each such account for a fiscal year. No other appropriations account may exceed by more than 10 percent the amount specifically authorized to be appropriated for such account for a fiscal year.
    (3) The requirements and limitations of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to the appropriation of funds pursuant to this subsection.
    (4) This subsection shall cease to have effect after September 30, 1995.
