  (a) Availability of appropriations until expended
     Amounts appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this chapter are authorized to be made available until expended.
  (b) Additional appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated for the United States Information Agency, in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for the Agency, such sums as may be necessary for any fiscal year for increases in salary, pay, retirement, and other employee benefits authorized by law.
  (c) Appropriations authorization based on currency fluctuations; Buying Power Maintenance account
    (1) In order to maintain the levels of program activity provided for by the annual authorizing legislation for the United States Information Agency, there are authorized to be appropriated for the Agency such sums as may be necessary for any fiscal year to offset adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or overseas wage and price changes, occurring after November 30 of the earlier of (A) the calendar year which ended during the fiscal year preceding such fiscal year, or (B) the calendar year which preceded the calendar year during which the authorization of appropriations for such fiscal year was enacted.
    (2) In carrying out this subsection, there may be established a Buying Power Maintenance account.
    (3) In order to eliminate substantial gains to the approved levels of overseas operations for the United States Information Agency, the Director shall transfer to the Buying Power Maintenance account such amounts appropriated for ””Salaries and Expenses““ as the Director determines are excessive to the needs of the approved level of operations under that appropriation account because of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or changes in overseas wages and prices.
    (4) In order to offset adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or foreign wages and prices, the Director may transfer from the Buying Power Maintenance account to the ””Salaries and Expenses““ appropriations account such amounts as the Director determines are necessary to maintain the approved level of operations under that appropriation account.
    (5) Funds transferred by the Director from the Buying Power Maintenance account to another account shall be merged with and be available for the same purpose, and for the same time period, as the funds in that other account. Funds transferred by the Director from another account to the Buying Power Maintenance account shall be merged with the funds in the Buying Power Maintenance account and shall be available for the purposes of that account until expended.
    (6) Any restriction contained in an appropriation Act or other provision of law limiting the amounts that may be obligated or expended by the United States Information Agency shall be deemed to be adjusted to the extent necessary to offset the net effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or overseas wage and price changes in order to maintain approved levels.
    (7)      (A) Subject to the limitations contained in this paragraph, not later than the end of the 5th fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds are appropriated or otherwise made available for the ””Salaries and Expenses““ account, the Director may transfer any unobligated balance of such funds to the Buying Power Maintenance account.
      (B) The balance of the Buying Power Maintenance account may not exceed $50,000,000 as a result of any transfer under this paragraph.
      (C) Any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 1477c of this title and shall be available for obligation or expenditure only in accordance with the procedures under such section.
      (D) The authorities contained in this section may only be exercised to such an extent and in such amounts as specifically provided in advance in appropriation Acts.
