   As used in this subchapter the term–
  (1) ””Person““ means a natural person, partnership, association, other unincorporated body, corporation, or body politic.
  (2) ””National of the United States““ means (A) a natural person who is a citizen of the United States, or who owes permanent allegiance to the United States, and (B) a corporation or other legal entity which is organized under the laws of the United States, any State or Territory thereof, or the District of Columbia, if natural persons who are nationals of the United States own, directly or indirectly, more than 50 per centum of the outstanding capital stock or other beneficial interest in such legal entity. It does not include aliens.
  (3) ””Treaty of peace““, with respect to a country, means the treaty of peace with that country signed at Paris, France, February 10, 1947, which came into force between that country and the United States on September 15, 1947.
  (4) ””Memorandum of Understanding““ means the Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Italy regarding Italian assets in the United States and certain claims of nationals of the United States, signed at Washington, District of Columbia, August 14, 1947 (61 Stat. 3962).
  (5) ””Soviet Government““ means the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, including any of its present or former constituent republics, other political subdivisions, and any territories thereof, as constituted on or prior to November 16, 1933.
  (6) ””Litvinov Assignment““ means (A) the communication dated November 16, 1933, from Maxim Litvinov to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, wherein the Soviet Government assigned to the Government of the United States amounts admitted or found to be due it as the successor of prior governments of Russia, or otherwise, preparatory to a final settlement of the claims outstanding between the two Governments and the claims of their nationals; (B) the communication dated November 16, 1933, from President Franklin D. Roosevelt to Maxim Litvinov, accepting such assignment; and (C) the assignments executed by Serge Ughet on August 25, 1933, and November 15, 1933, assigning certain assets to the Government of the United States.
  (7) ””Russian national““ includes any corporation or business association organized under the laws, decrees, ordinances, or acts of the former Empire of Russia or of any government successor thereto, and subsequently nationalized or dissolved or whose assets were taken over by the Soviet Government or which was merged with any other corporation or organization by the Soviet Government.
  (8) ””Commission““ means the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, established pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 1 of 1954 (68 Stat. 1279).
  (9) ””Property““ means any property, right, or interest.
