   In this chapter:
  (1) Demand reduction
     The term ””demand reduction““ means any activity conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency, other than an enforcement activity, that is intended to reduce the use of drugs, including–
    (A) drug abuse education;
    (B) drug abuse prevention;
    (C) drug abuse treatment;
    (D) drug abuse research;
    (E) drug abuse rehabilitation;
    (F) drug-free workplace programs; and
    (G) drug testing.
  (2) Director
     The term ””Director““ means the Director of National Drug Control Policy.
  (3) Drug
     The term ””drug““ has the meaning given the term ””controlled substance““ in section 802(6) of this title.
  (4) Drug control
     The term ””drug control““ means any activity conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency involving supply reduction or demand reduction.
  (5) Fund
     The term ””Fund““ means the fund established under section 1702(d) of this title.
  (6) National Drug Control Program
     The term ””National Drug Control Program““ means programs, policies, and activities undertaken by National Drug Control Program agencies pursuant to the responsibilities of such agencies under the National Drug Control Strategy.
  (7) National Drug Control Program agency
     The term ””National Drug Control Program agency““ means any agency that is responsible for implementing any aspect of the National Drug Control Strategy, including any agency that receives Federal funds to implement any aspect of the National Drug Control Strategy, but does not include any agency that receives funds for drug control activity solely under the National Foreign Intelligence Program, the Joint Military Intelligence Program or Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities, unless such agency has been designated–
    (A) by the President; or
    (B) jointly by the Director and the head of the agency.
  (8) National Drug Control Strategy
     The term ””National Drug Control Strategy““ means the strategy developed and submitted to Congress under section 1705 of this title.
  (9) Office
     Unless the context clearly implicates otherwise, the term ””Office““ means the Office of National Drug Control Policy established under section 1702(a) of this title.
  (10) State and local affairs
     The term ””State and local affairs““ means domestic activities conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency that are intended to reduce the availability and use of drugs, including–
    (A) coordination and facilitation of Federal, State, and local law enforcement drug control efforts;
    (B) promotion of coordination and cooperation among the drug supply reduction and demand reduction agencies of the various States, territories, and units of local government; and
    (C) such other cooperative governmental activities which promote a comprehensive approach to drug control at the national, State, territory, and local levels.
  (11) Supply reduction
     The term ””supply reduction““ means any activity of a program conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency that is intended to reduce the availability or use of drugs in the United States and abroad, including–
    (A) international drug control;
    (B) foreign and domestic drug intelligence;
    (C) interdiction; and
    (D) domestic drug law enforcement, including law enforcement directed at drug users.
