  (a) Establishment; membership
     There is established the Travel and Tourism Advisory Board (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Board““) to be composed of fifteen members appointed by the Secretary. The members of the Board shall be appointed as follows:
    (1) Not more than eight members of the Board shall be appointed from the same political party.
    (2) The members of the Board shall be appointed from among citizens of the United States who are not regular full-time employees of the United States and shall be selected for appointment so as to provide as nearly as practicable a broad representation of different geographical regions within the United States and of the diverse and varied segments of the tourism industry.
    (3) Twelve of the members shall be appointed from senior executive officers of organizations engaged in the travel and tourism industry. Of such members–
      (A) at least one shall be a senior representative from a labor organization representing employees of the tourism industry;
      (B) at least two shall be representatives of the States who are knowledgeable of tourism promotion; and
      (C) at least one shall be a representative of a city who is knowledgeable of tourism promotion.
    (4) Of the remaining three members of the Board–
      (A) one member shall be a consumer advocate or ombudsman from the organized public interest community;
      (B) one member shall be an economist, statistician, or accountant; and
      (C) one member shall be an individual from the academic community who is knowledgeable in tourism, recreation, or national heritage conservation.
         The Secretary shall serve as an ex officio member of the Board. The duration of the Board shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act. A list of the members appointed to the Board shall be forwarded by the Secretary to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.
  (b) Term of office
     The members of the Board shall be appointed for a term of office of three years, except that of the members first appointed–
    (1) four members shall be appointed for terms of one year, and
    (2) four members shall be appointed for terms of two years,
       as designated by the Secretary at the time of appointment. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member“s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A member may serve after the expiration of his term until his successor has taken office. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointments were made. No member of the Board shall be eligible to serve in excess of six consecutive years or nine years in the aggregate.
  (c) Election of officers
     The Chairman and Vice Chairman and other appropriate officers of the Board shall be elected by and from members of the Board other than the Secretary.
  (d) Expenses
     The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services as such, but shall be allowed such necessary travel expenses and per diem as are authorized by section 5703 of title 5. The Secretary shall pay the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the Board in connection with the coordination of Board activities, announcement and reporting of meetings, and preparation of such reports as are required by subsection (f) of this section.
  (e) Meetings
     The Board shall meet at least semi-annually and shall hold such other meetings at the call of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, or a majority of its members.
  (f) Functions and duties; annual report
     The Board shall advise the Secretary with respect to the implementation of this chapter. The Board shall prepare an annual report concerning its activities and include therein such recommendations as it deems appropriate with respect to the performance of the Secretary under this chapter and the operation and effectiveness of programs under this chapter. Each annual report shall cover a fiscal year and shall be submitted on or before the thirty-first day of December following the close of the fiscal year.
