  (a) Assistance in development
     In furtherance of the purposes of subchapter I of this chapter and for the purpose of improving existing, and developing and advancing new, technology and experience in the design, construction, and operation of large-scale desalting plants of advanced concepts which will contribute materially to low-cost desalination in all countries, including the United States, the President, if he determines it to be feasible, is authorized to participate in the development of a large-scale water treatment and desalting prototype plant and necessary appurtenances to be constructed in Israel as an integral part of a dual-purpose power generating and desalting project. Such participation shall include financial, technical, and such other assistance as the President deems appropriate to provide for the study, design, construction, and, for a limited demonstration period of not to exceed five years, operation and maintenance of the water treatment and desalting facilities of the dual-purpose project.
  (b) Terms and conditions
     Any agreement entered into under subsection (a) of this section shall include such terms and conditions as the President deems appropriate to insure, among other things, that all information, products, uses, processes, patents, and other developments obtained or utilized in the development of this prototype plant will be available without further cost to the United States for the use and benefit of the United States throughout the world, and to insure that the United States, its officers, and employees have a permanent right to review data and have access to such plant for the purpose of observing its operations and improving science and technology in the field of desalination.
  (c) Contracts
     In carrying out the provisions of this section, the President may enter into contracts with public or private agencies and with any person without regard to section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31 and section 6101 of title 41.
  (d) Patents
     Nothing in this section shall be construed as intending to deprive the owner of any background patent or any right which such owner may have under that patent.
  (e) Federal agencies
     In carrying out the provisions of this section, the President may utilize the personnel, services, and facilities of any Federal agency.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
     The United States costs, other than its administrative costs, for the study, design, construction, and operation of a prototype plant under this section shall not exceed either 50 per centum of the total capital costs of the facilities associated with the production of water, and 50 per centum of the operation and maintenance costs for the demonstration period, or $20,000,000, whichever is less. There are authorized to be appropriated, subject to the limitations of this subsection, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, including administrative costs thereof. Such sums are authorized to remain available until expended.
  (g) Restrictions on appropriations
     No funds appropriated for the Office of Water Research and Technology pursuant to the appropriation authorized by the Act of July 11, 1969 (83 Stat. 45, Public Law 91–43), or prior authorization Acts, shall be used to carry out the purposes of this section.
