  (a) Guarantees to Export-Import Bank; financial transactions with private sector in Central American countries
     In order to enable the Export-Import Bank of the United States (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Bank““) to determine that there exists reasonable assurance of repayment as required under section 2(b)(1)(B) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 [12 U.S.C. 635(b)(1)(B)], the agency primarily responsible for administering subchapter I of this chapter (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Agency““) is authorized to provide guarantees to the Bank for liabilities to be incurred by the Bank in connection with guarantees or insurance provided under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 [12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.] for financing for transactions involving the export of goods and services for the use of the private sector in Central American countries.
  (b) Extent of guarantees; agreements; reserve fund
    (1) Guarantees provided by the Agency pursuant to the authority of subsection (a) of this section shall be for short-term guarantees and insurance extended by the Bank which shall be repayable within a period not to exceed one year from the date of arrival at the port of importation of the goods and services covered by such guarantees or insurance. Guarantees or insurance extended by the Bank and guaranteed by the Agency pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be provided by the Bank in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed to by the Agency and the Bank. Such agreement shall also provide for the establishment of a reserve fund by the Agency, with such funds made available to the reserve as the Agency deems necessary to discharge liabilities under guarantees provided by the Agency pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) The Administrator of such agency shall transmit a copy of such agreement to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
  (c) Deadline for guarantee commitments
     The Agency shall not enter into any commitments to guarantee under subsection (a) of this section after September 30, 1991.
  (d) Availability of appropriated funds
     Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for part IV of subchapter II of this chapter, there are authorized to be made available such sums as may be deemed necessary by the Agency to discharge liabilities under guarantees entered into under subsection (a) of this section.
  (e) Guarantee commitments limit
     Commitments to guarantee under subsection (a) of this section are authorized only to the extent and in the amounts provided in appropriations Acts, except that the aggregate amount of outstanding commitments under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed $300,000,000 of contingent liability for loan principal during fiscal year 1986 and may not exceed $400,000,000 of contingent liability for loan principal during fiscal year 1987.
  (f) Credits to reserve fund
     To the extent that any of the funds made available pursuant to subsection (d) of this section are paid out for a claim arising out of liabilities guaranteed under subsection (a) of this section, amounts received after the date of such payment, with respect to such claim, shall be credited to the reserve fund referred to in subsection (b) of this section, shall be merged with the funds in such reserve, and shall be available for the purpose of payments by the Agency to the Bank for guarantees under subsection (a) of this section.
  (g) Omitted
  (h) Administrative and technical assistance
     The Export-Import Bank shall provide without reimbursement such administrative and technical assistance to the Agency as the Bank and the Agency deem appropriate to assist the Agency in carrying out this section.
