  (a) Structure
     The Corporation shall have a Board of Directors, a President, an Executive Vice President, and such other officers and staff as the Board of Directors may determine.
  (b) Board of directors
     All powers of the Corporation shall vest in and be exercised by or under the authority of its Board of Directors (””the Board““) which shall consist of fifteen Directors, including the Chairman, with eight Directors constituting a quorum for the transaction of business. Eight Directors shall be appointed by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall not be officials or employees of the Government of the United States. At least two of the eight Directors appointed under the preceding sentence shall be experienced in small business, one in organized labor, and one in cooperatives. Each such Director shall be appointed for a term of no more than three years. The terms of no more than three such Directors shall expire in any one year. Such Directors shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified and may be reappointed.
     The other Directors shall be principal officers of the Government of the United States whose duties relate to the programs of the Corporation, including the President of the Corporation, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, the United States Trade Representative, and one such officer of the Department of Labor, designated by and serving at the pleasure of the President of the United States. The United States Trade Representative may designate a Deputy United States Trade Representative to serve on the Board in place of the United States Trade Representative.
     There shall be a Chairman and a Vice Chairman of the Board, both of whom shall be designated by the President of the United States from among the Directors of the Board other than those appointed under the second sentence of the first paragraph of this subsection.
     All Directors who are not officers of the Corporation or officials of the Government of the United States shall be compensated at a rate equivalent to that of level IV of the Executive Schedule when actually engaged in the business of the Corporation and may be paid per diem in lieu of subsistence at the applicable rate prescribed in the standardized Government travel regulations, as amended from time to time, while away from their homes or usual places of business.
  (c) President
     The President of the Corporation shall be appointed by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. In making such appointment, the President shall take into account private business experience of the appointee. The President of the Corporation shall be its Chief Executive Officer and responsible for the operations and management of the Corporation, subject to bylaws and policies established by the Board.
  (d) Officers and staff
     The Executive Vice President of the Corporation shall be appointed by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. Other officers, attorneys, employees, and agents shall be selected and appointed by the Corporation, and shall be vested with such powers and duties as the Corporation may determine. Of such persons employed by the Corporation, not to exceed twenty may be appointed, compensated, or removed without regard to the civil service laws and regulations: T3ProvidedK, That under such regulations as the President of the United States may prescribe, officers and employees of the United States Government who are appointed to any of the above positions may be entitled, upon removal from such position, except for cause, to reinstatement to the position occupied at the time of appointment or to a position of comparable grade and salary. Such positions shall be in addition to those otherwise authorized by law, including those authorized by section 5108 of title 5.
  (e) Investment advisory council
     The Board shall take prompt measures to increase the loan, guarantee, and insurance programs, and financial commitments, of the Corporation in sub-Saharan Africa, including through the use of an investment advisory council to assist the Board in developing and implementing policies, programs, and financial instruments with respect to sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, the investment advisory council shall make recommendations to the Board on how the Corporation can facilitate greater support by the United States for trade and investment with and in sub-Saharan Africa. The investment advisory council shall terminate 4 years after May 18, 2000.
