  (a) Cooperative programs
     In order to encourage greater availability of political risk insurance for eligible investors by enhancing the private political risk insurance industry in the United States, and to the extent consistent with this subpart, the Corporation shall undertake programs of cooperation with such industry, and in connection with such programs may engage in the following activities:
    (1) Utilizing its statutory authorities, encourage the development of associations, pools, or consortia of United States private political risk insurers.
    (2) Share insurance risks (through coinsurance, contingent insurance, or other means) in a manner that is conducive to the growth and development of the private political risk insurance industry in the United States.
    (3) Notwithstanding section 2197(e) of this title, upon the expiration of insurance provided by the Corporation for an investment, enter into risk-sharing agreements with United States private political risk insurers to insure any such investment; except that, in cooperating in the offering of insurance under this paragraph, the Corporation shall not assume responsibility for more than 50 percent of the insurance being offered in each separate transaction.
  (b) Advisory group
    (1) Establishment and membership
       The Corporation shall establish a group to advise the Corporation on the development and implementation of the cooperative programs under this section. The group shall be appointed by the Board and shall be composed of up to 12 members, including the following:
      (A) Up to seven persons from the private political risk insurance industry, of whom no fewer than two shall represent private political risk insurers, one shall represent private political risk reinsurers, and one shall represent insurance or reinsurance brokerage firms.
      (B) Up to four persons, other than persons described in subparagraph (A), who are purchasers of political risk insurance.
    (2) Functions
       The Corporation shall call upon members of the advisory group, either collectively or individually, to advise it regarding the capability of the private political risk insurance industry to meet the political risk insurance needs of United States investors, and regarding the development of cooperative programs to enhance such capability.
    (3) Meetings
       The advisory group shall meet not later than September 30, 1989, and at least annually thereafter. The Corporation may from time to time convene meetings of selected members of the advisory group to address particular questions requiring their specialized knowledge.
    (4) Federal Advisory Committee Act
       The advisory group shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
