  (a) Issuing authority
    (1) Insurance
       The maximum contingent liability outstanding at any one time pursuant to insurance issued under section 2194(a) of this title shall not exceed in the aggregate $13,500,000,000.
    (2) Financing
      (A) The maximum contingent liability outstanding at any one time pursuant to financing issued under subsections (b) and (c) of section 2194 of this title shall not exceed in the aggregate $9,500,000,000.
      (B) Subject to spending authority provided in appropriations Acts pursuant to section 661c(b) of title 2, the Corporation is authorized to transfer such sums as are necessary from its noncredit activities to pay for the subsidy cost of the investment guaranties and direct loan programs under subsections (b) and (c) of section 2194 of this title.
    (3) Termination of authority
       The authority of subsections (a) and (b) of section 2194 of this title shall continue until September 30, 1996.
  (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 102–549, title I, § 104(a)(3), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3652
  (c) Insurance Reserve; Guaranty Reserve
     There shall be established in the Treasury of the United States an insurance and guaranty fund, which shall have separate accounts to be known as the Insurance Reserve and the Guaranty Reserve, which reserves shall be available for discharge of liabilities, as provided in subsection (d) of this section, until such time as all such liabilities have been discharged or have expired or until all such reserves have been expended in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such fund shall be funded by: (1) the funds heretofore available to discharge liabilities under predecessor guaranty authority (including housing guaranty authorities), less both the amount made available for housing guaranty programs pursuant to section 2183(b) of this title and the amount made available to the Corporation pursuant to subsection (e) of this section; and (2) such sums as shall be appropriated pursuant to subsection (f) of this section for such purpose. The allocation of such funds to each such reserve shall be determined by the Board after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury. Additional amounts may thereafter be transferred to such reserves pursuant to section 2196 of this title.
  (d) Priority of funds used to discharge liabilities
     Any payments made to discharge liabilities under investment insurance or reinsurance issued under section 2194 of this title, under similar predecessor guaranty authority, or under section 2194b of this title shall be paid first out of the Insurance Reserve, as long as such reserve remains available, and thereafter out of funds made available pursuant to subsection (f) of this section. Any payments made to discharge liabilities under guaranties issued under section 2194(b) of this title or under similar predecessor guaranty authority shall be paid first out of the Guaranty Reserve as long as such reserve remains available, and thereafter out of funds made available pursuant to subsection (f) of this section.
  (e) Reserves from predecessor guaranty authority
     There is hereby authorized to be transferred to the Corporation at its call, for the purposes specified in section 2196 of this title, all fees and other revenues collected under predecessor guaranty authority from December 31, 1968, available as of the date of such transfer.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations; issuance, etc., of obligations by Corporation for purchase by Secretary of the Treasury
     There are authorized to be appropriated to the Corporation, to remain available until expended, such amounts as may be necessary from time to time to replenish or increase the insurance and guaranty fund, to discharge the liabilities under insurance, reinsurance, or guaranties issued by the Corporation or issued under predecessor guaranty authority, or to discharge obligations of the Corporation purchased by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this subsection. However, no appropriations shall be made to augment the Insurance Reserve until the amount of funds in the Insurance Reserve is less than $25,000,000. Any appropriations to augment the Insurance Reserve shall then only be made either pursuant to specific authorization enacted after August 27, 1974, or to satisfy the full faith and credit provision of section 2197(c) of this title. In order to discharge liabilities under investment insurance or reinsurance, the Corporation is authorized to issue from time to time for purchase by the Secretary of the Treasury its notes, debentures, bonds, or other obligations; but the aggregate amount of such obligations outstanding at any one time shall not exceed $100,000,000. Any such obligation shall be repaid to the Treasury within one year after the date of issue of such obligation. Any such obligation shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of any obligation authorized by this subsection. The Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase any obligation of the Corporation issued under this subsection, and for such purchase he may use as a public debt transaction the proceeds of the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31 after August 27, 1974. The purpose for which securities may be issued under such chapter shall include any such purchase.
