  (a) Annual report
     After the end of each fiscal year, the Corporation shall submit to the Congress a complete and detailed report of its operations during such fiscal year. Such report shall include–
    (1) an assessment, based upon the development impact profiles required by section 2199(h) of this title, of the economic and social development impact and benefits of the projects with respect to which such profiles are prepared, and of the extent to which the operations of the Corporation complement or are compatible with the development assistance programs of the United States and other donors; and
    (2) a description of any project for which the Corporation–
      (A) refused to provide any insurance, reinsurance, guaranty, financing, or other financial support, on account of violations of human rights referred to in section 2199(i) of this title; or
      (B) notwithstanding such violations, provided such insurance, reinsurance, guaranty, financing, or financial support, on the basis of a determination (i) that the project will directly benefit the needy people in the country in which the project is located, or (ii) that the national security interest so requires.
  (b) Effect of all projects on employment in United States to be included in annual report
    (1) Each annual report required by subsection (a) of this section shall contain projections of the effects on employment in the United States of all projects for which, during the preceding fiscal year, the Corporation initially issued any insurance, reinsurance, or guaranty or made any direct loan. Each such report shall include projections of–
      (A) the amount of United States exports to be generated by those projects, both during the start-up phase and over a period of years;
      (B) the final destination of the products to be produced as a result of those projects; and
      (C) the impact such production will have on the production of similar products in the United States with regard to both domestic sales and exports.
    (2) The projections required by this subsection shall be based on an analysis of each of the projects described in paragraph (1).
    (3) In reporting the projections on employment required by this subsection, the Corporation shall specify, with respect to each project–
      (A) any loss of jobs in the United States caused by the project, whether or not the project itself creates other jobs;
      (B) any jobs created by the project; and
      (C) the country in which the project is located, and the economic sector involved in the project.
         No proprietary information may be disclosed under this paragraph.
  (c) Repealed. Pub. L. 100–461, title V, § 555, Oct. 1, 1988, 102 Stat. 2268–36
  (d) Maintenance of records
     The Corporation shall maintain as part of its records–
    (1) all information collected in preparing the report required by subsection (c) of this section (as in effect before October 1, 1988), whether the information was collected by the Corporation itself or by a contractor; and
    (2) a copy of the analysis of each project analyzed in preparing the reports required either by subsection (b) of this section, or by subsection (c) of this section (as in effect before October 1, 1988).
  (e) Assessment of cooperative political risk insurance program
     Each annual report required by subsection (a) of this section shall include an assessment of programs implemented by the Corporation under section 2194b(a) of this title, including the following information, to the extent such information is available to the Corporation:
    (1) The nature and dollar value of political risk insurance provided by private insurers in conjunction with the Corporation, which the Corporation was not permitted to provide under this subpart.
    (2) The nature and dollar value of political risk insurance provided by private insurers in conjunction with the Corporation, which the Corporation was permitted to provide under this subpart.
    (3) The manner in which such private insurers and the Corporation cooperated in recovery efforts and claims management.
  (f) Information not required to be made available to public excluded from reports
     Subsections (b) and (e) of this section do not require the inclusion in any report submitted pursuant to those subsections of any information which would not be required to be made available to the public pursuant to section 552 of title 5 (relating to freedom of information).
