  (a) In general
     Not later than June 30, 2006, and each June 30 thereafter, the Administrator of the Agency, acting through the Director of the office, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a detailed description of the implementation of this subpart for the previous fiscal year.
  (b) Contents
     The report shall contain the following:
    (1) The number of grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, contributions, or other form of assistance provided under section 2211a of this title, with a listing of–
      (A) the amount of each grant, cooperative agreement, contract, contribution, or other form of assistance;
      (B) the name of each recipient and each developing country with respect to which projects or activities under the grant, cooperative agreement, contract, contribution, or other form of assistance were carried out; and
      (C) a listing of the number of countries receiving assistance authorized by section 2211a of this title.
    (2) The results of the monitoring system required under section 2211b of this title.
    (3) The process of developing and applying poverty assessment procedures required under section 2211c of this title.
    (4) The percentage of assistance furnished under section 2211a of this title that was allocated to the very poor based on the data collected using the certified methods required by section 2211c of this title.
    (5) The estimated number of the very poor reached with assistance provided under section 2211a of this title.
    (6) The amount of assistance provided under section 2211a of this title through central mechanisms.
    (7) The name of each country that receives assistance under section 2212 of this title and the amount of such assistance.
    (8) Information on the efforts of the Agency to ensure that recipients of United States microenterprise and microfinance development assistance work closely with nongovernmental organizations and foreign governments to identify and assist victims or potential victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and women who are victims of or susceptible to other forms of exploitation and violence.
    (9) Any additional information relating to the provision of assistance authorized by this subpart, including the use of the poverty measurement tools required by section 2211c of this title, or additional information on assistance provided by the United States to support microenterprise development under this subpart or any other provision of law.
    (10) An estimate of the percentage of beneficiaries of assistance under this subpart in countries where a strong relationship between poverty and race or ethnicity has been demonstrated.
    (11) The level of funding provided through contracts, the level of funding provided through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements that is estimated to be subgranted or subcontracted, as the case may be, to direct service providers, and an analysis of the comparative cost-effectiveness and sustainability of projects carried out under these mechanisms.
  (c) Availability to public
     The report required by this section shall be made available to the public on the Internet website of the Agency.
