  (a) Voluntary contributions; grants and loans in case of the Indus Basin Development Fund
     When he determines it to be in the national interest, the President is authorized to make voluntary contributions on a grant basis to international organizations and to programs administered by such organizations, and in the case of the Indus Basin Development Fund administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to make grants and loans payable as to principal and interest in United States dollars and subject to the provisions of section 2151t(b) of this title, on such terms and conditions as he may determine, in order to further the purposes of subchapter I of this chapter.
  (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 97–113, title VII, § 734(a)(1), Dec. 29, 1981, 95 Stat. 1560
  (c) Palestine refugees; considerations and conditions for furnishing assistance
     No contributions by the United States shall be made to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East except on the condition that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency take all possible measures to assure that no part of the United States contribution shall be used to furnish assistance to any refugee who is receiving military training as a member of the so-called Palestine Liberation Army or any other guerrilla type organization or who has engaged in any act of terrorism.
  (d) Audit of funds; report to Congress and the President
     In any case in which a fund established solely by United States contributions under this chapter or any other Act is administered by an international organization under the terms of an agreement between the United States and such international organization, such agreement shall provide that the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct such audits as are necessary to assure that such fund is administered in accordance with such agreement. The President shall undertake to modify any existing agreement entered into before November 14, 1967, to conform to the requirements of the preceding sentence. The Comptroller General shall report simultaneously to the Congress and the President the results of the audits conducted under this subsection.
  (e) Evaluation of United Nations and its affiliated organizations; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Asian Development Bank
    (1) In the case of the United Nations and its affiliated organizations, including the International Atomic Energy Agency, the President shall, acting through the United States representative to such organizations, propose and actively seek the establishment by the governing authorities of such organizations of external, professionally qualified groups of appropriate size for the purpose of providing an independent and continuous program of selective examination, review, evaluation, and audits of the programs and activities of such organizations. Such proposal shall provide that such groups shall be established in accordance with such terms of reference as such governing authority may prescribe and that the reports of such groups on each examination, review, evaluation, or audit shall be submitted directly to such governing authority for transmittal to the representative of each individual member nation. Such proposal shall further include a statement of auditing and reporting standards, as prepared by the Comptroller General of the United States, for the consideration of the governing authority of the international organization concerned to assist in formulating terms of reference for such review and evaluation groups.
    (2) In the case of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank, the President shall, acting through the United States representative to such organizations, propose and actively seek the establishment by the governing authorities of such organizations professionally qualified groups of appropriate size for the purpose of providing an independent and continuous program of selective examination, review, evaluation, and audit of the programs and activities of such organizations. Such proposal shall provide that such groups shall be established in accordance with such terms of reference as such governing authorities may prescribe, and that the reports of such groups on each examination, review, evaluation, or audit shall be submitted directly to such governing authority for transmittal to the representative of each individual member nation. Such proposal shall further include a statement of auditing and reporting standards, as prepared by the Comptroller General of the United States, for the consideration of the governing authority of the international organization concerned to assist in formulating terms of reference for such review and evaluation groups.
  (f) International Fertilizer Development Center; United States participation and assistance
     The President is hereby authorized to permit United States participation in the International Fertilizer Development Center and is authorized to use any of the funds made available under this part for the purpose of furnishing assistance to the Center on such terms and conditions as he may determine.
  (g) Transfer of funding of technological assistance programs to United Nations Development Program
     It is the sense of the Congress that the President should instruct the appropriate representatives of the United States to the United Nations to encourage the specialized agencies of the United Nations to transfer the funding of technical assistance programs carried out by such agencies to the United Nations Development Program.
  (h) International Food Policy Research Institute; availability of funds, etc.
     The President is authorized to permit the United States to participate in and to use any of the funds made available under subchapter I of this chapter after December 29, 1981, for the purpose of furnishing assistance (on such terms and conditions as the President may determine) to the International Food Policy Research Institute.
