  (a) Purpose
     The purpose of this section is to strengthen the public educational systems in predominantly Muslim countries by–
    (1) authorizing the establishment of an International Muslim Youth Educational Fund through which the United States dedicates resources, either through a separate fund or through an international organization, to assist those countries that commit to education reform; and
    (2) providing resources for the Fund and to the President to help strengthen the public educational systems in those countries.
  (b) Establishment of Fund
    (1) Authority
       The President is authorized to establish an International Muslim Youth Opportunity Fund and to carry out programs consistent with paragraph (4) under existing authorities, including the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (commonly referred to as the ””Fulbright-Hays Act““) [22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.].
    (2) Location
       The Fund may be established–
      (A) as a separate fund in the Treasury; or
      (B) through an international organization or international financial institution, such as the United Nations Educational, Science and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Development Program, or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
    (3) Transfers and receipts
       The head of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government may transfer any amount to the Fund, and the Fund may receive funds from private enterprises, foreign countries, or other entities.
    (4) Activities of the Fund
       The Fund shall support programs described in this paragraph to improve the education environment in predominantly Muslim countries.
      (A) Assistance to enhance modern educational programs
        (i) The establishment in predominantly Muslim countries of a program of reform to create a modern education curriculum in the public educational systems in such countries.
        (ii) The establishment or modernization of educational materials to advance a modern educational curriculum in such systems.
        (iii) Teaching English to adults and children.
        (iv) The enhancement in predominantly Muslim countries of community, family, and student participation in the formulation and implementation of education strategies and programs in such countries.
      (B) Assistance for training and exchange programs for teachers, administrators, and students
        (i) The establishment of training programs for teachers and educational administrators to enhance skills, including the establishment of regional centers to train individuals who can transfer such skills upon return to their countries.
        (ii) The establishment of exchange programs for teachers and administrators in predominantly Muslim countries and with other countries to stimulate additional ideas and reform throughout the world, including teacher training exchange programs focused on primary school teachers in such countries.
        (iii) The establishment of exchange programs for primary and secondary students in predominantly Muslim countries and with other countries to foster understanding and tolerance and to stimulate long-standing relationships.
      (C) Assistance targeting primary and secondary students
        (i) The establishment in predominantly Muslim countries of after-school programs, civic education programs, and education programs focusing on life skills, such as inter-personal skills and social relations and skills for healthy living, such as nutrition and physical fitness.
        (ii) The establishment in predominantly Muslim countries of programs to improve the proficiency of primary and secondary students in information technology skills.
      (D) Assistance for development of youth professionals
        (i) The establishment of programs in predominantly Muslim countries to improve vocational training in trades to help strengthen participation of Muslims and Arabs in the economic development of their countries.
        (ii) The establishment of programs in predominantly Muslim countries that target older Muslim youths not in school in such areas as entrepreneurial skills, accounting, micro-finance activities, work training, financial literacy, and information technology.
      (E) Other types of assistance
        (i) The translation of foreign books, newspapers, reference guides, and other reading materials into local languages.
        (ii) The construction and equipping of modern community and university libraries.
    (5) Authorization of appropriations
      (A) In general
         There is authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010.
      (B) Availability
         Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations under subsection (a) \1\N are authorized to remain available until expended.
      (C) Additional funds
         Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) \1\ shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
    (6) Report to Congress
       Not later than 180 days after August 3, 2007, and annually thereafter until January 30, 2010, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on United States efforts to assist in the improvement of educational opportunities for predominantly Muslim children and youths, including the progress made toward establishing the International Muslim Youth Opportunity Fund.
    (7) Appropriate congressional committees defined
       In this subsection, the term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
