  (a) Fiscal year authorization; availability of funds
    (1) To carry out the purposes of section 2291 of this title, there are authorized to be appropriated to the President $147,783,000 for fiscal year 1993 and $171,500,000 for fiscal year 1994.
    (2) Amounts appropriated under this subsection are authorized to remain available until expended.
  (b) Procurement of weapons and ammunition
    (1) Prohibition
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), funds made available to carry out this part shall not be made available for the procurement of weapons or ammunition.
    (2) Exceptions
       Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to funds for the procurement of–
      (A) weapons or ammunition provided only for the defensive arming of aircraft used for narcotics-related purposes, or
      (B) firearms and related ammunition provided only for defensive purposes to employees or contract personnel of the Department of State engaged in activities under this part,
       if, at least 15 days before obligating those funds, the President notifies the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 2394–1 of this title.
  (c) Contributions and reimbursement
    (1) To ensure local commitment to the activities assisted under this part, a country receiving assistance under this part should bear an appropriate share of the costs of any narcotics control program, project, or activity for which such assistance is to be provided. A country may bear such costs on an ””in kind““ basis.
    (2)      (A) The President is authorized to accept contributions from foreign governments to carry out the purposes of this part. Such contributions shall be deposited as an offsetting collection to the applicable appropriation account and may be used under the same terms and conditions as funds appropriated pursuant to this part.
      (B) At the time of submission of the annual congressional presentation documents required by section 2394(a) of this title, the President shall provide a detailed report on any contributions received in the preceding fiscal year, the amount of such contributions, and the purposes for which such contributions were used.
    (3) The President is authorized to provide assistance under this part on a reimbursable basis. Such reimbursements shall be deposited as an offsetting collection to the applicable appropriation and may be used under the same terms and conditions as funds appropriated pursuant to this part.
  (d) Administrative assistance
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), personnel funded pursuant to this section are authorized to provide administrative assistance to personnel assigned to the bureau designated by the Secretary of State to replace the Bureau for International Narcotics Matters.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the extent that it would result in a reduction in funds available for antinarcotics assistance to foreign countries.
  (e) Advance notification of transfer of seized assets
     The President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees at least 10 days prior to any transfer by the United States Government to a foreign country for narcotics control purposes of any property or funds seized by or otherwise forfeited to the United States Government in connection with narcotics-related activity.
  (f) Treatment of funds
     Funds transferred to and consolidated with funds appropriated pursuant to this part may be made available on such terms and conditions as are applicable to funds appropriated pursuant to this part. Funds so transferred or consolidated shall be apportioned directly to the bureau within the Department of State responsible for administering this part.
  (g) Excess property
     For purposes of this part, the Secretary of State may use the authority of section 2358 of this title, without regard to the restrictions of such section, to receive nonlethal excess property from any agency of the United States Government for the purpose of providing such property to a foreign government under the same terms and conditions as funds authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of this part.
