  (a) Retention of title to aircraft
    (1) In general
      (A) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any aircraft made available to a foreign country under this part, or made available to a foreign country primarily for narcotics-related purposes under any other provision of law, shall be provided only on a lease or loan basis.
      (B) Subparagraph (A) applies to aircraft made available at any time after October 27, 1986 (which was the date of enactment of the International Narcotics Control Act of 1986).
    (2) Exceptions
      (A) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the extent that–
        (i) the application of that paragraph with respect to particular aircraft would be contrary to the national interest of the United States; and
        (ii) the President notifies the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 2394–1 of this title.
      (B) Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to aircraft made available to a foreign country under any provision of law that authorizes property that has been civilly or criminally forfeited to the United States to be made available to foreign countries.
    (3) Assistance for leasing of aircraft
      (A) For purposes of satisfying the requirement of paragraph (1), funds made available for the ””Foreign Military Financing Program““ under section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2763] may be used to finance the leasing of aircraft under chapter 6 of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2796 et seq.].
      (B) Section 61(a)(3) \1\N of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2796(a)(3)] shall not apply with respect to leases so financed; rather the entire cost of any such lease (including any renewals) shall be an initial, one time payment of the amount which would be the sales price for the aircraft if they were sold under section 21(a)(1)(B) or section 22 of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2761(a)(1)(B), 2762] (as appropriate).
      (C) To the extent that aircraft so leased were acquired under chapter 5 of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2795 et seq.], funds used pursuant to this paragraph to finance such leases shall be credited to the Special Defense Acquisition Fund under chapter 5 of that Act (excluding the amount of funds that reflects the charges described in section 21(e)(1) of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2761(e)(1)]). The funds described in the parenthetical clause of the preceding sentence shall be available for payments consistent with sections 37(a) and 43(b) of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2777(a), 2792(b)].
  (b) Permissible uses of aircraft and other equipment
     The President shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that aircraft and other equipment made available to foreign countries under this part are used only in ways that are consistent with the purposes for which such equipment was made available.
  (c) Reports
     In the reports submitted pursuant to section 2291h(a) of this title, the President shall discuss–
    (1) any evidence indicating misuse by a foreign country of aircraft or other equipment made available under this part, and
    (2) the actions taken by the United States Government to prevent future misuse of such equipment by that foreign country.
