  (a) Congressional recognition and statement of purpose; authority of President; scope of assistance
     The Congress recognizes that prompt United States assistance is necessary to alleviate the human suffering arising from famine and disease in Cambodia. Accordingly, the President is authorized to furnish assistance, on such terms and conditions as he may determine, for disaster relief to alleviate the suffering of the victims of famine and disease in Cambodia. Assistance provided under this section shall be for humanitarian purposes and limited to the civilian population, with emphasis on providing food, medicine and medical care, clothing, temporary shelter, transportation for emergency supplies and personnel, and similar assistance to save human lives.
  (b) Assistance through international agencies and private voluntary organizations
     Assistance provided under this section or any other provision of law to alleviate the human suffering caused by famine and disease in Cambodia shall be provided, to the maximum extent practicable, through international agencies and private voluntary organizations such as (among others) the World Relief Committee, World Medical Missions, Inc., Cama Services, World Vision, Food for the Hungry, Thailand Baptist Mission, Catholic Relief Services, Oxfam, and the International Rescue Committee.
  (c) Assistance procedures; monitoring of deliveries
    (1) In providing assistance under this section, the President shall satisfy himself that adequate procedures have been established to ensure that such assistance reaches the innocent victims of famine and disease for whom it is intended. Such procedures shall include end use monitoring of deliveries on a periodic basis by individuals having freedom of movement where the assistance is being distributed within Cambodia.
    (2) Repealed. Pub. L. 97–113, title VII, § 734(a)(1), Dec. 29, 1981, 95 Stat. 1560.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations; charges for obligations incurred under other appropriations or accounts; authority for transfer of funds; agricultural commodity assistance priorities
    (1) In addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, there is authorized to be appropriated for purposes of this section $30,000,000 for the fiscal year 1980, which amount is authorized to remain available until expended.
    (2) Obligations incurred, prior to the enactment of appropriations to carry out this section, against other appropriations or accounts for the purpose of alleviating the human suffering caused by famine and disease in Cambodia may be charged to the appropriations authorized by paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (3) The President may exercise the authority of section 2360(a) of this title (without regard to the 20 percent limitation contained in that section on increases in accounts) in order to transfer, for use in carrying out this section, up to $30,000,000 of the funds made available for the fiscal year 1980 to carry out other provisions of this chapter.
    (4) Priority shall be given in allocating assistance under the Food for Peace Act [7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.] to furnishing agricultural commodities for use in carrying out this section.
  (e) Section 2292 policies and general authorities applicable
     Assistance under this section shall be provided in accordance with the policies and utilizing the general authorities provided in section 2292 of this title.
