  (a) Transfer of defense articles
     No defense article in the inventory of the Department of Defense which is set aside, reserved, or in any way earmarked or intended for future use by any foreign country may be made available to or for use by any foreign country unless such transfer is authorized under this chapter or the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.] or any subsequent corresponding legislation, and the value of such transfer is charged against funds authorized under such legislation or against the limitations specified in such legislation, as appropriate, for the fiscal period in which such defense article is transferred. For purposes of this subsection, ””value““ means the acquisition cost plus crating, packing, handling, and transportation costs incurred in carrying out this section.
  (b) Fiscal year limits on new stockpiles or additions to existing stockpiles located in foreign countries
    (1) The value of defense articles to be set aside, earmarked, reserved, or intended for use as war reserve stocks for allied or other foreign countries (other than for purposes of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or in the implementation of agreements with Israel) in stockpiles located in foreign countries may not exceed in any fiscal year an amount that is specified in security assistance authorizing legislation for that fiscal year.
    (2)      (A) The value of such additions to stockpiles of defense articles in foreign countries shall not exceed $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 and 2005.
      (B) Of the amount specified in subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year, not more than $100,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in the State of Israel.
  (c) Location of stockpiles of defense articles
    (1) Limitation
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), no stockpile of defense articles may be located outside the boundaries of a United States military base or a military base used primarily by the United States.
    (2) Exceptions
       Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to stockpiles of defense articles located in the Republic of Korea, Thailand, any country that is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, any country that is a major non-NATO ally, or any other country the President may designate. At least 15 days before designating a country pursuant to the last clause of the preceding sentence, the President shall notify the congressional committees specified in section 2394–1(a) of this title in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under that section.
  (d) Transferred articles not to be considered excess articles in determining value
     No defense article transferred from any stockpile which is made available to or for use by any foreign country may be considered an excess defense article for the purpose of determining the value thereof.
