  (a) Policy requirements for assistance
     The Congress recognizes that, under special economic, political, or security conditions, the national interests of the United States may require economic support for countries or in amounts which could not be justified solely under part I of subchapter I of this chapter or, in the case of countries in sub-Saharan Africa, part X of subchapter I of this chapter. In such cases, the President is authorized to furnish assistance to countries and organizations, on such terms and conditions as he may determine, in order to promote economic or political stability. To the maximum extent feasible, the President shall provide assistance under this part consistent with the policy directions, purposes, and programs of subchapter I of this chapter.
  (b) Responsibility for policy decisions and justifications
     The Secretary of State shall be responsible for policy decisions and justifications for economic support programs under this part, including determinations of whether there will be an economic support program for a country and the amount of the program for each country. The Secretary shall exercise this responsibility in cooperation with the Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering subchapter I of this chapter.
  (c) Detailed justification for uses and purposes of funds
     As part of the annual presentation materials for foreign assistance submitted to the Congress, the agency primarily responsible for administering subchapter II of this chapter shall provide a detailed justification for the uses and the purposes of the funds provided under this part. Such material shall include, but not be limited to, information concerning the amounts and kinds of cash grant transfers, the amounts and kinds of budgetary and balance-of-payments support provided, and the amounts and kinds of project assistance provided with funds made available under this part.
  (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(d) [title V, § 533(a)(5)], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–150, 2681–180
  (e) Availability of funds
     Amounts appropriated to carry out this part shall be available for economic programs only and may not be used for military or paramilitary purposes.
