  (a) Prohibition
     The United States shall not provide any assistance under this chapter, the Food for Peace Act [7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.], the Peace Corps Act [22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.], or the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 [12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.] to any country if the Secretary of State determines that the government of that country has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
  (b) Publication of determinations
     Each determination of the Secretary of State under subsection (a) of this section, including each determination in effect on December 12, 1989, shall be published in the Federal Register.
  (c) Rescission
     A determination made by the Secretary of State under subsection (a) of this section may not be rescinded unless the President submits to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate–
    (1) before the proposed rescission would take effect, a report certifying that–
      (A) there has been a fundamental change in the leadership and policies of the government of the country concerned;
      (B) that government is not supporting acts of international terrorism; and
      (C) that government has provided assurances that it will not support acts of international terrorism in the future; or
    (2) at least 45 days before the proposed rescission would take effect, a report justifying the rescission and certifying that–
      (A) the government concerned has not provided any support for international terrorism during the preceding 6-month period; and
      (B) the government concerned has provided assurances that it will not support acts of international terrorism in the future.
  (d) Waiver
     Assistance prohibited by subsection (a) of this section may be provided to a country described in that subsection if–
    (1) the President determines that national security interests or humanitarian reasons justify a waiver of subsection (a) of this section, except that humanitarian reasons may not be used to justify assistance under subchapter II of this chapter (including part IV, part VI, and part VIII), or the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 [12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.]; and
    (2) at least 15 days before the waiver takes effect, the President consults with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate regarding the proposed waiver and submits a report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate containing–
      (A) the name of the recipient country;
      (B) a description of the national security interests or humanitarian reasons which require the waiver;
      (C) the type and amount of and the justification for the assistance to be provided pursuant to the waiver; and
      (D) the period of time during which such waiver will be effective.
         The waiver authority granted in this subsection may not be used to provide any assistance under this chapter which is also prohibited by section 2780 of this title.
