  (a) Delegation of powers; submission of proposal for delegation to Congress
     The President may delegate, to such officers of the Government as he determines to be appropriate, any of the powers conferred upon him by this chapter to the extent that he finds such delegation to be in the interest of the purposes expressed in this chapter and the efficient administration of the programs undertaken pursuant to this chapter: T3ProvidedK, That where the President has delegated any of such powers to any officer, before the President implements any proposal for the delegation of any of such powers to another officer, that proposal shall be submitted to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and thereafter a period of not less than sixty days shall have elapsed while Congress is in session. In computing such sixty days, there shall be excluded the days on which either House is not in session because of an adjournment of more than three days.
  (b) Employment of personnel
     The President is authorized to employ such other personnel as he deems necessary to carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter, and of such personnel not to exceed ten may be compensated without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, but not in excess of the highest rate of grade 18 of the General Schedule. Such positions shall be in addition to the number authorized by section 5108 of title 5.
  (c) Repealed. Pub. L. 96–465, title II, § 2205(7), Oct. 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 2160
  (d) Extension of benefits
     For the purpose of performing functions under this chapter outside the United States, the Director of the United States Information Agency is authorized to provide that any person employed or assigned by a United States Government agency shall be entitled, except to the extent that the Director of the United States Information Agency may specify otherwise in cases in which the period of employment or assignment exceeds thirty months, to the same benefits as are provided by section 3950 of this title for individuals appointed to the Foreign Service.
  (e) Grants; use of funds, counseling service; publicity and promotion abroad
    (1) In providing for the activities and interchanges authorized by section 2452 of this title, grants may be made to or for individuals, either directly or through foundations or educational or other institutions, which foundations or institutions are public or private nonprofit, and may include funds for tuition and other necessary incidental expenses, for travel expenses from their places of residence and return for themselves, and, whenever it would further the purposes of this chapter, for the dependent members of their immediate families, for health and accident insurance premiums, emergency medical expenses, costs of preparing and transporting to their former homes the remains of any of such persons who may die while away from their homes as participants or dependents of participants in any program under this chapter, and for per diem in lieu of subsistence at rates prescribed by the Director of the United States Information Agency, for all such persons, and for such other expenses as are necessary for the successful accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter.
    (2) Funds available for programs under this chapter may be used (i) to provide for orientation courses, language training, or other appropriate services and materials for persons traveling out of the countries of their residence for educational and cultural purposes which further the purposes of this chapter, whether or not they are receiving other financial support from the Government, and (ii) to provide or continue services to increase the effectiveness of such programs following the return of such persons to the countries of their residence.
    (3) For the purpose of assisting foreign students in making the best use of their opportunities while attending colleges and universities in the United States, and assisting such students in directing their talents and initiative into channels which will make them more effective leaders upon return to their native lands, the Director of the United States Information Agency may make suitable arrangements, by contract or otherwise, for the establishment and maintenance at colleges and universities in the United States attended by foreign students of an adequate counseling service.
    (4) The Director of the United States Information Agency is authorized to provide for publicity and promotion (including representation) abroad of activities of the type provided for in this chapter, and of similar services and opportunities for interchange not supported by the United States Government.
  (f) Repealed. Pub. L. 96–60, title II, § 203(a)(1), Aug. 15, 1979, 93 Stat. 398
  (g) Currency exchange for foreign students and teachers coming temporarily to the United States
    (1) For the purpose of performing functions authorized by section 2452(b)(10) of this title, the President is authorized to establish the exchange rates at which all foreign currencies may be acquired through operations under such section, and shall issue regulations binding upon all embassies with respect to the exchange rates to be applicable in each of the respective countries where currency exchanges are authorized under such section.
    (2) In performing the functions authorized under section 2452(b)(10) of this title, the President shall make suitable arrangements for protecting the interests of the United States Government in connection with the ownership, use, and disposition of all foreign currencies acquired pursuant to exchanges made under such section.
    (3) The total amount of United States dollars acquired by any individual through currency exchanges under the authority of section 2452(b)(10) of this title shall in no event exceed $3,000 during any academic year.
    (4) An individual shall be eligible to exchange foreign currency for United States dollars at United States embassies under section 2452(b)(10) of this title only if he gives satisfactory assurances that (A) he will devote essentially full time to his proposed educational activity in the United States and will maintain good standing in relation to such program; (B) he will return to the country of his citizenship or nationality prior to coming to the United States and will render such public service as is determined acceptable for a period of time determined reasonable and necessary by the government of such country; and (C) he will not apply for an immigrant visa or for permanent residence or for a nonimmigrant visa under the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.] after having received any benefits under such section for a period of time equal to the period of study, research, instruction, or other educational activity he performed pursuant to such section.
    (5) As used in section 2452(b)(10) of this title, the term ””excess foreign currencies““ means foreign currencies, which if acquired by the United States (A) would be in excess of the normal requirements of departments, agencies, and embassies of the United States for such currencies, as determined by the President, and (B) would be available for the use of the United States Government under applicable agreements with the foreign country concerned.
