  (a) Establishment of Office of Victims \1\N Advocacy
    (1) In general
       The President shall establish an Office of Victim Advocacy in Peace Corps headquarters headed by a full-time victim advocate who shall report directly to the Director. The Office of Victim Advocacy may deploy personnel abroad when necessary to help assist victims.
    (2) Prohibition
       Peace Corps Medical Officers, Safety and Security Officers, and program staff may not serve as victim advocates. The victim advocate referred to in paragraph (1) may not have any other duties in the Peace Corps that are not reasonably connected to victim advocacy.
    (3) Exemption
       The victim advocate and any additional victim advocates shall be exempt from the limitations specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2) and paragraph (5) under section 2506(a) of this title.
  (b) Responsibilities
    (1) Victims of sexual assault
       The Office of Victim Advocacy shall help develop and update the sexual assault risk-reduction and response training described in section 2507a of this title and the sexual assault policy described in section 2507b of this title, ensure that volunteers who are victims of sexual assault receive services specified in section 2507b(c) of this title, and facilitate their access to such services.
    (2) Other crimes
       In addition to assisting victims of sexual assault in accordance with paragraph (1), the Office of Victim Advocacy shall assist volunteers who are victims of crime by making such victims aware of the services available to them and facilitating their access to such services.
    (3) Priority
       The Office of Victim Advocacy shall give priority to cases involving serious crimes, including sexual assault and stalking.
  (c) Status updates
     The Office of Victim Advocacy shall provide to volunteers who are victims regular updates on the status of their cases if such volunteers have opted to pursue prosecution.
  (d) Transition
     The Office of Victim Advocacy shall assist volunteers who are victims of crime and whose service has terminated in receiving the services specified in section 2507b(c) of this title requested by such volunteer.
  (e) Sunset
     This section shall cease to be effective on October 1, 2018.
