  (a) Establishment
     There is established a Sexual Assault Advisory Council (in this section referred to as the ””Council““).
  (b) Membership
     The Council shall be composed of not less than 8 individuals selected by the President, not later than 180 days after November 21, 2011, who are returned volunteers (including volunteers who were victims of sexual assault and volunteers who were not victims of sexual assault) and governmental and nongovernmental experts and professionals in the sexual assault field. No Peace Corps employee shall be a member of the Council. The number of governmental experts appointed to the Council shall not exceed the number of nongovernmental experts.
  (c) Functions; meetings
     The Council shall meet not less often than annually to review the sexual assault risk-reduction and response training developed under section 2507a of this title, the sexual assault policy developed under section 2507b of this title, and such other matters related to sexual assault the Council views as appropriate, to ensure that such training and policy conform to the extent practicable to best practices in the sexual assault field.
  (d) Reports
     On an annual basis for 5 years after November 21, 2011, and at the discretion of the Council thereafter, the Council shall submit to the President and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on its findings based on the reviews conducted pursuant to subsection (c).
  (e) Employee status
     Members of the Council shall not be considered employees of the United States Government for any purpose and shall not receive compensation other than reimbursement of travel expenses and per diem allowance in accordance with section 5703 of title 5.
  (f) Nonapplicability of FACA
     The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Council.
  (g) Sunset
     This section shall cease to be effective on October 1, 2018.
