  (a) In general
     The President shall develop and implement a comprehensive sexual assault policy that–
    (1) includes a system for restricted and unrestricted reporting of sexual assault;
    (2) mandates, for each Peace Corps country program, the designation of a Sexual Assault Response Liaison (SARL), who shall receive comprehensive training on procedures to respond to reports of sexual assault, with duties including ensuring that volunteers who are victims of sexual assault are moved to a safe environment and accompanying victims through the in-country response at the request of the victim;
    (3) requires SARLs to immediately contact a Victim Advocate upon receiving a report of sexual assault in accordance with the restricted and unrestricted reporting guidelines promulgated by the Peace Corps;
    (4) to the extent practicable, conforms to best practices in the sexual assault field;
    (5) is applicable to all posts at which volunteers serve; and
    (6) includes a guarantee that volunteers will not suffer loss of living allowances for reporting a sexual assault.
  (b) Development and consultation with experts
     In developing the sexual assault policy under subsection (a), the President shall consult with and incorporate, as appropriate, the recommendations and views of experts in the sexual assault field, including experts with international experience.
  (c) Elements
     The sexual assault policy developed under subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following services with respect to a volunteer who has been a victim of sexual assault:
    (1) The option of pursuing either restricted or unrestricted reporting of an assault.
    (2) Provision of a SARL and Victim“s Advocate to the volunteer.
    (3) At a volunteer“s discretion, provision of a sexual assault forensic exam in accordance with applicable host country law.
    (4) If necessary, the provision of emergency health care, including a mechanism for such volunteer to evaluate such provider.
    (5) If necessary, the provision of counseling and psychiatric medication.
    (6) Completion of a safety and treatment plan with the volunteer, if necessary.
    (7) Evacuation of such volunteer for medical treatment, accompanied by a Peace Corps staffer at the request of such volunteer. When evacuated to the United States, such volunteer shall be provided, to the extent practicable, a choice of medical providers including a mechanism for such volunteers to evaluate the provider.
    (8) An explanation to the volunteer of available law enforcement and prosecutorial options, and legal representation.
  (d) Training
     The President shall train all staff outside the United States regarding the sexual assault policy developed under subsection (a).
