  (a) Monitoring and evaluation
     Not later than 1 year after November 21, 2011, the President shall establish goals, metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for all Peace Corps programs. Monitoring and evaluation plans shall incorporate best practices from monitoring and evaluation studies and analyses.
  (b) Performance plans and elements
     The President shall establish performance plans with performance elements and standards for Peace Corps representatives and shall review the performance of Peace Corps representatives not less than annually to determine whether they have met these performance elements and standards. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as limiting the discretion of the President to remove a Peace Corps representative.
  (c) Annual volunteer surveys
     Annually through September 30, 2018, the President shall conduct a confidential survey of volunteers regarding the effectiveness of Peace Corps programs and staff and the safety of volunteers. The results shall be provided in aggregate form without identifying information to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives. Results from the annual volunteer survey shall be considered in reviewing the performance of Peace Corps representatives under subsection (a).
  (d) Peace Corps Inspector General
     The Inspector General of the Peace Corps shall–
    (1) submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives–
      (A) a report, not later than one year after November 21, 2011, and biennially through September 30, 2018, on reports received from volunteers relating to misconduct, mismanagement, or policy violations of Peace Corps staff, any breaches of the confidentiality of volunteers, and any actions taken to assure the safety of volunteers who provide such reports;
      (B) a report, not later than two years and five years after November 21, 2011, evaluating the effectiveness and implementation of the sexual assault risk-reduction and response training developed under section 2507a of this title and the sexual assault policy developed under section 2507b of this title, including a case review of a statistically significant number of cases; and
      (C) a report, not later than two years after November 21, 2011, describing how Peace Corps representatives are hired, how Peace Corps representatives are terminated, and how Peace Corps representatives hire staff, including an assessment of the implementation of the performance plans described in subsection (b); and
    (2) when conducting audits or evaluations of Peace Corps programs overseas, notify the Director of the Peace Corps about the results of such evaluations, including concerns the Inspector General has noted, if any, about the performance of Peace Corps representatives, for appropriate action.
  (e) Portfolio reviews
    (1) In general
       The President shall, at least once every 3 years, perform a review to evaluate the allocation and delivery of resources across the countries the Peace Corps serves or is considering for service. Such portfolio reviews shall at a minimum include the following with respect to each such country:
      (A) An evaluation of the country“s commitment to the Peace Corps program.
      (B) An analysis of the safety and security of volunteers.
      (C) An evaluation of the country“s need for assistance.
      (D) An analysis of country program costs.
      (E) An evaluation of the effectiveness of management of each post within a country.
      (F) An evaluation of the country“s congruence with the Peace Corp“s \1\N mission and strategic priorities.
    (2) Briefing
       Upon request of the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, the President shall brief such committees on each portfolio review required under paragraph (1). If requested, each such briefing shall discuss performance measures and sources of data used (such as project status reports, volunteer surveys, impact studies, reports of Inspector General of the Peace Corps, and any relevant external sources) in making the findings and conclusions in such review.
