   An ultimate goal of the United States is a world which is free from the scourge of war and the dangers and burdens of armaments; in which the use of force has been subordinated to the rule of law; and in which international adjustments to a changing world are achieved peacefully. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide impetus toward this goal by creating a new agency of peace to deal with the problem of reduction and control of armaments looking toward ultimate world disarmament.
   Arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament policy, being an important aspect of foreign policy, must be consistent with national security policy as a whole. The formulation and implementation of United States arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament policy in a manner which will promote the national security can best be insured by a central organization charged by statute with primary responsibility for this field. This organization must have such a position within the Government that it can provide the President, the Secretary of State, other officials of the executive branch, and the Congress with recommendations concerning United States arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament policy, and can assess the effect of these recommendations upon our foreign policies, our national security policies, and our economy.
   This organization must have the capacity to provide the essential scientific, economic, political, military, psychological, and technological information upon which realistic arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament policy must be based. It shall have the authority, under the direction of the President and the Secretary of State, to carry out the following primary functions:
  (1) The preparation for and management of United States participation in international negotiations and implementation fora in the arms control and disarmament field.
  (2) When directed by the President, the preparation for, and management of, United States participation in international negotiations and implementation fora in the nonproliferation field.
  (3) The conduct, support, and coordination of research for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament policy formulation.
  (4) The preparation for, operation of, or, as appropriate, direction of, United States participation in such control systems as may become part of United States arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament activities.
  (5) The dissemination and coordination of public information concerning arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament.
