  (a) Establishment of fund
     There is hereby established a working capital fund for the Department of State, which shall be available without fiscal year limitation, for expenses (including those authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980 [22 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.]) and equipment, necessary for maintenance and operation in the city of Washington and elsewhere of (1) central reproduction, editorial, data processing, audiovisual, library and administrative support services; (2) central services for supplies and equipment (including repairs); (3) such other administrative services as the Secretary, with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget, determines may be performed more advantageously and more economically as central services; and (4) medical and health care services. Such fund shall also be available without fiscal year limitation to carry out the purposes of title II of this Act [22 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.] \1\N The capital of the fund shall consist of the amount of the fair and reasonable value of such supply inventories, equipment, and other assets and inventories on order, pertaining to the services to be carried on by the fund, as the Secretary may transfer to the fund, less the related liabilities and unpaid obligations, together with any appropriations made for the purpose of providing capital. The fund shall be reimbursed, or credited with advance payments, from applicable appropriations and funds of the Department of State, other Federal agencies, and other sources authorized by law, for supplies and services at rates which will approximate the expense of operations, including accrual of annual leave and depreciation of plant and equipment of the fund. The fund shall also be credited with other receipts from sale or exchange of property or in payment for loss or damage to property held by the fund. There shall be transferred into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, as of the close of each fiscal year, earnings which the Secretary determines to be excess to the needs of the fund.
  (b) Charges to fund; credit to appropriations
     The current value of supplies returned to the working capital fund by a post, activity, or agency may be charged to the fund. The proceeds thereof shall, if otherwise authorized, be credited to current applicable appropriations and shall remain available for expenditures for the same purposes for which those appropriations are available. Credits may not be made to appropriations under this subsection as the result of capitalization of inventories.
