  (a) Authority
     The Secretary of State may, by regulation, impose controls on the provision of the services described in subsection (b) of this section if the Secretary determines that provision of such services would aid and abet international terrorism.
  (b) Services subject to control
     The services subject to control under subsection (a) of this section are the following:
    (1) Serving in or with the security forces of a designated foreign government.
    (2) Providing training or other technical services having a direct military, law enforcement, or intelligence application, to or for the security forces of a designated foreign government.
       Any regulations issued to impose controls on services described in paragraph (2) shall list the specific types of training and other services subject to the controls.
  (c) Persons subject of controls
     These services may be controlled under subsection (a) of this section when they are provided within the United States by any individual or entity and when they are provided anywhere in the world by a United States person.
  (d) Licenses
     In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of State may require licenses, which may be revoked, suspended, or amended, without prior notice, whenever such action is deemed to be advisable.
  (e) Definitions
    (1) Designated foreign government
       As used in this section, the term ””designated foreign government““ means a foreign government that the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 2405(j)(1) of title 50, Appendix, has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
    (2) Security forces
       As used in this section, the term ””security forces““ means any military or paramilitary forces, any police or other law enforcement agency (including any police or other law enforcement agency at the regional or local level), and any intelligence agency of a foreign government.
    (3) United States
       As used in this section, the term ””United States““ includes any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States.
    (4) United States person
       As used in this section, the term ””United States person““ means any United States national, any permanent resident alien, and any sole proprietorship, partnership, company, association, or corporation organized under the laws of or having its principal place of business within the United States.
  (f) Violations
    (1) Penalties
       Whoever willfully violates any regulation issued under this section shall be fined not more than $100,000 or five times the total compensation received for the conduct which constitutes the violation, whichever is greater, or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both, for each such offense.
    (2) Investigations
       The Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury shall have authority to investigate violations of regulations issued under this section.
  (g) Congressional oversight
    (1) Review of regulations
       Not less than 30 days before issuing any regulations under this section (including any amendments thereto), the Secretary of State shall transmit the proposed regulations to the Congress.
    (2) Reports
       Not less than once every six months, the Secretary of State shall report to the Congress concerning the number and character of licenses granted and denied during the previous reporting period, and such other information as the Secretary may find to be relevant to the accomplishment of the objectives of this section.
  (h) Relationship to other laws
     The authority granted by this section is in addition to the authorities granted by any other provision of law.
