  (a) Governors and executive directors; term of office
     The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint a governor of the Fund who shall also serve as a governor of the Bank, and an executive director of the Fund and an executive director of the Bank. The executive directors so appointed shall also serve as provisional executive directors of the Fund and the Bank for the purposes of the respective Articles of Agreement. The term of office for the governor of the Fund and of the Bank shall be five years. The term of office for the executive directors shall be two years, but the executive directors shall remain in office until their successors have been appointed.
  (b) Alternates; term of office
     The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint an alternate for the governor of the Fund and an alternate for the governor of the Bank. The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint an alternate for each of the executive directors. The alternate for each executive director shall be appointed from among individuals recommended to the President by the executive director. The terms of office for alternates for the governor and the executive directors shall be the same as the terms specified in subsection (a) of this section for the governor and executive directors.
  (c) Governor to serve as councillor; alternates and associates
     Should the provisions of Schedule D of the Articles of Agreement of the Fund apply, the Governor of the Fund shall also serve as councillor, shall designate an alternate for the councillor, and may designate associates.
  (d) Compensation for services
    (1) No person shall be entitled to receive any salary or other compensation from the United States for services as a Governor, executive director, councillor, alternate, or associate.
    (2) The United States executive director of the Fund shall not be compensated by the Fund at a rate in excess of the rate provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5. The United States alternate executive director of the Fund shall not be compensated by the Fund at a rate in excess of the rate provided for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5.
    (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director of the Fund to present to the Fund“s Executive Board a comprehensive set of proposals, consistent with maintaining high levels of competence of Fund personnel and consistent with the Articles of Agreement, with the objective of assuring that salaries and other compensation accorded Fund employees do not exceed those received by persons filling similar levels of responsibility within national government service or private industry. The Secretary shall report these proposals together with any measures adopted by the Fund“s Executive Board to the Congress prior to February 1, 1979.
