  (a) Establishment
     There is established a Board for International Broadcasting (hereinafter referred to as the ””Board““).
  (b)    (1) Composition of Board
       The Board shall consist of ten members, one of whom shall be an ex officio member. The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, nine voting members, one of whom the President shall designate as chairman. Not more than five of the members of the Board appointed by the President shall be of the same political party. The chief operating executive of RFE/RL, Incorporated, shall be an ex officio member of the Board and may participate in the activities of the Board, but may not vote in the determinations of the Board.
    (2) Selection
       Members of the Board appointed by the President shall be citizens of the United States who are not concurrently regular full-time employees of the United States Government. Such members shall be selected by the President from among Americans distinguished in the fields of foreign policy or mass communications.
    (3) Term of office of Presidentially appointed members
       The term of office of each member of the Board appointed by the President shall be three years, except that the terms of office of the individuals initially appointed as the four additional voting members of the Board who are provided for by the Board for International Broadcasting Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1982 and 1983, shall be one, two, or three years (as designated by the President at the time of their appointment) so that the terms of one-third of the voting members of the Board expire each year. The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, members to fill vacancies occurring prior to the expiration of a term, in which case the members so appointed shall serve for the remainder of such term. Any member whose term has expired may serve until his or her successor has been appointed and qualified.
    (4) Term of office of ex officio member
       The ex officio member of the Board shall serve on the Board during his or her term of service as chief operating executive of RFE/RL, Incorporated.
    (5) Compensation
       Members of the Board appointed by the President shall, while attending meetings of the Board or while engaged in duties relating to such meetings or in other activities of the Board pursuant to this section, including traveltime, be entitled to receive compensation equal to the daily equivalent of the compensation prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5. While away from their homes or regular places of business they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently. The ex officio member of the Board shall not be entitled to any compensation under this chapter, but may be allowed travel expenses as provided in the preceding sentence.
  (c) Supplies, services, and other personal property: procurement
     The Board may, to the extent it deems necessary to carry out its functions under this chapter, procure supplies, services, and other personal property, including specialized electronic equipment.
