  (a) Periodic reports
     The President shall, from time to time as occasion may require, but not less than once each year, make reports to the Congress of the activities of the United Nations and of the participation of the United States therein.
  (b) Annual report on financial contributions
     Not later than July 1 of each year, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the designated congressional committees on the extent and disposition of all financial contributions made by the United States during the preceding year to international organizations in which the United States participates as a member.
  (c) Annual report
     In addition to the report required by subsection (a) of this section, the President, at the time of submission of the annual budget request to the Congress, shall submit to the designated congressional committees a report that includes the following:
    (1) Costs of peacekeeping operations
      (A) In accordance with section 407(a)(5)(B) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995,\1\N a description of all assistance provided by the United States to the United Nations to support peacekeeping operations during the previous calendar quarter and during the previous year.
      (B) With respect to United Nations peacekeeping operations–
        (i) the aggregate cost of all United Nations peacekeeping operations for the prior fiscal year;
        (ii) the costs of each United Nations peacekeeping operation for the prior fiscal year; and
        (iii) the amount of United States contributions (both assessed and voluntary) to United Nations peacekeeping operations on an operation-by-operation basis for the prior fiscal year.
      (C) With respect to other international peacekeeping operations in which the United States participates–
        (i) the aggregate cost of all such operations for the prior fiscal year;
        (ii) the costs of each such operation for the prior fiscal year; and
        (iii) the amount of United States contributions (both assessed and voluntary) to such operations on an operation-by-operation basis for the prior fiscal year.
      (D) In the case of the first 2 reports submitted pursuant to this subsection, a projection of all United States costs for United Nations peacekeeping operations during each of the next 2 fiscal years, including assessed and voluntary contributions.
    (2) Other matters regarding peacekeeping operations
      (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of ongoing international peacekeeping operations, their relevance to United States national interests, the efforts by the United Nations and other international organizations (as applicable) to resolve the relevant armed conflicts, and the projected termination dates for all such operations.
      (B) The dollar value and percentage of total peacekeeping contracts that have been awarded to United States contractors during the previous year.
    (3) United Nations reform
      (A)        (i) A description of the status of efforts to establish and implement an independent office of the Inspector General at the United Nations.
        (ii) If an office of the Inspector General has been established at the United Nations, a discussion of whether the Inspector General is keeping the Secretary General and the members of the General Assembly fully informed about problems, deficiencies, the necessity for corrective action, and the progress of corrective action.
        (iii) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term ””office of the Inspector General““ means an independent office (or other independent entity) established by the United Nations to conduct and supervise objective audits, inspections, and investigations relating to the programs and operations of the United Nations.
      (B) A description of the status of efforts to reduce the United States peacekeeping assessment rate.
      (C) A description of the status of other United States efforts to achieve financial and management reform at the United Nations.
    (4) Military personnel participating in multinational forces
       A description of–
      (A) the status under international law of members of multinational forces, including the legal status of such personnel if captured, missing, or detained;
      (B) the extent of the risk for United States military personnel who are captured while participating in multinational forces in cases where their captors fail to respect the 1949 Geneva Conventions and other international agreements intended to protect prisoners of war; and
      (C) the specific steps that have been taken to protect United States military personnel participating in multinational forces, together (if necessary) with any recommendations for the enactment of legislation to achieve that objective.
    (5) Human rights and U.N. peacekeeping forces
       A description of the efforts by United Nations peacekeeping forces to promote and protect internationally recognized human rights standards, including the status of investigations in any case of alleged human rights violations during the preceding year by personnel participating in United Nations peacekeeping forces, as well as any action taken in such cases.
  (d) Consultations and reports on United Nations peacekeeping operations
    (1) Consultations
       Each month the President shall consult with Congress on the status of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
    (2) Information to be provided
       In connection with such consultations, the following information shall be provided each month to the designated congressional committees:
      (A) With respect to ongoing United Nations peacekeeping operations, the following:
        (i) A list of all resolutions of the United Nations Security Council anticipated to be voted on during such month that would extend or change the mandate of any United Nations peacekeeping operation.
        (ii) For each such operation, any changes in the duration, mandate, and command and control arrangements that are anticipated as a result of the adoption of the resolution.
        (iii) An estimate of the total cost to the United Nations of each such operation for the period covered by the resolution, and an estimate of the amount of that cost that will be assessed to the United States.
        (iv) Any anticipated significant changes in United States participation in or support for each such operation during the period covered by the resolution (including the provision of facilities, training, transportation, communication, and logistical support, but not including intelligence activities reportable under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.)), and the estimated costs to the United States of such changes.
      (B) With respect to each new United Nations peacekeeping operation that is anticipated to be authorized by a Security Council resolution during such month, the following information for the period covered by the resolution:
        (i) The anticipated duration, mandate, and command and control arrangements of such operation, the planned exit strategy, and the vital national interest to be served.
        (ii) An estimate of the total cost to the United Nations of the operation, and an estimate of the amount of that cost that will be assessed to the United States.
        (iii) A description of the functions that would be performed by any United States Armed Forces participating in or otherwise operating in support of the operation, an estimate of the number of members of the Armed Forces that will participate in or otherwise operate in support of the operation, and an estimate of the cost to the United States of such participation or support.
        (iv) A description of any other United States assistance to or support for the operation (including the provision of facilities, training, transportation, communication, and logistical support, but not including intelligence activities reportable under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.)), and an estimate of the cost to the United States of such assistance or support.
        (v) A reprogramming of funds pursuant to section 2706 of this title, submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in such section, describing the source of funds that will be used to pay for the cost of the new United Nations peacekeeping operation, provided that such notification shall also be submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    (3) Form and timing of information
      (A) Form
         The President shall submit information under clauses (i) and (iii) of paragraph (2)(A) in writing.
      (B) Timing
        (i) Ongoing operations
           The information required under paragraph (2)(A) for a month shall be submitted not later than the 10th day of the month.
        (ii) New operations
           The information required under paragraph (2)(B) shall be submitted in writing with respect to each new United Nations peacekeeping operation not less than 15 days before the anticipated date of the vote on the resolution concerned unless the President determines that exceptional circumstances prevent compliance with the requirement to report 15 days in advance. If the President makes such a determination, the information required under paragraph (2)(B) shall be submitted as far in advance of the vote as is practicable.
    (4) New United Nations peacekeeping operation defined
       As used in paragraph (2), the term ””new United Nations peacekeeping operation““ includes any existing or otherwise ongoing United Nations peacekeeping operation–
      (A) where the authorized force strength is to be expanded;
      (B) that is to be authorized to operate in a country in which it was not previously authorized to operate; or
      (C) the mandate of which is to be changed so that the operation would be engaged in significant additional or significantly different functions.
    (5) Notification and quarterly reports regarding United States assistance
      (A) Notification of certain assistance
        (i) In general
           The President shall notify the designated congressional committees at least 15 days before the United States provides any assistance to the United Nations to support peacekeeping operations.
        (ii) Exception
           This subparagraph does not apply to–
          (I) assistance having a value of less than $3,000,000 in the case of nonreimbursable assistance or less than $14,000,000 in the case of reimbursable assistance; or
          (II) assistance provided under the emergency drawdown authority of sections 2318(a)(1) and 2348a(c)(2) of this title.
      (B) Annual report
         The President shall submit an annual report to the designated congressional committees on all assistance provided by the United States during the preceding calendar year to the United Nations to support peacekeeping operations. Each such report shall describe the assistance provided for each such operation, listed by category of assistance.
  (e) Designated congressional committees
     In this section, the term ””designated congressional committees““ means the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  (f) Relationship to other notification requirements
     Nothing in this section is intended to alter or supersede any notification requirement with respect to peacekeeping operations that is established under any other provision of law.
