  (a) Reports by Nuclear Regulatory Commission and Department of Energy
     The annual reports to the Congress by the Commission and the Department of Energy which are otherwise required by law shall also include views and recommendations regarding the policies and actions of the United States to prevent proliferation which are the statutory responsibility of those agencies. The Department“s report shall include a detailed analysis of the proliferation implications of advanced enrichment and reprocessing techniques, advanced reactors, and alternative nuclear fuel cycles. This part of the report shall include a comprehensive version which includes any relevant classified information and a summary unclassified version.
  (b) Additional reporting requirements
     The reporting requirements of this subchapter are in addition to and not in lieu of any other reporting requirements under applicable law.
  (c) Committees on Foreign Relations and Governmental Affairs of Senate and Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives to be kept informed
    (1) The Department of State, the Department of Defense, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Commission, and, with regard to subparagraph (B), the Director of Central Intelligence, shall keep the Committees on Foreign Relations and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives fully and currently informed with respect to–
      (A) their activities to carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter and to otherwise prevent proliferation, including the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons, or their means of delivery; and
      (B) the current activities of foreign nations which are of significance from the proliferation standpoint.
    (2) For the purposes of this subsection with respect to paragraph (1)(B), the phrase ””fully and currently informed““ means the transmittal of credible information not later than 60 days after becoming aware of the activity concerned.
  (d) Classified portions of reports
     Any classified portions of the reports required by this chapter shall be submitted to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
  (e) Omitted
  (f) Access by Secretary of Defense to information regarding nuclear proliferation matters; applicability
    (1) The Secretary of Defense shall have access, on a timely basis, to all information regarding nuclear proliferation matters which the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Energy has or is entitled to have. Such access shall include access to all communications, materials, documents, and records relating to nuclear proliferation matters.
    (2) This subsection does not apply to any intradepartmental document of the Department of State or the Department of Energy, or any portion of such document, that is solely concerned with internal, confidential advice on policy concerning the conduct of interagency deliberations on nuclear proliferation matters.
