  (a) Composition of Board
     The Commission shall be supervised by a Board composed of nine members, one of whom shall be an officer of the Department of Defense. The officer of the Department of Defense who shall serve on the Board shall be designated by the Secretary of Defense and may continue to serve on the Board only while continuing to serve as an officer of the Department of Defense. Not less than five members of the Board shall be nationals of the United States and the remaining members of the Board shall be nationals of the Republic of Panama. Three members of the Board who are nationals of the United States shall hold no other office in, and shall not be employed by, the Government of the United States, and shall be chosen for the independent perspective they can bring to the Commission“s affairs. Members of the Board who are nationals of the United States shall cast their votes as directed by the the \1\N officer of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense to be a member of the Board.
  (b) Membership of Board; appointing authority; compensation and travel expenses; compensation for non-Government Board members
     The President shall appoint the members of the Board. The members of the Board who are United States nationals shall be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Each member of the Board shall hold office at the pleasure of the President and, before assuming the duties of such office, shall take an oath to discharge faithfully the duties of his office. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed travel or transportation expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with section 3617 of this title, except that, in addition to such travel or transportation expenses, members of the Board who hold no other office with either the Government of the United States or the Republic of Panama for which they receive pay are authorized to be compensated at the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, for each day during which they are traveling to or from or attending meetings of the Board as provided in subsection (c) of this section or, as authorized by the Chairman of the Board, while on official Panama Canal Commission business.
  (c) Meetings; quorum; proxies
     The Board shall hold meetings as provided in regulations adopted by the Commission and approved by the Secretary of Defense. A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of a majority of the Board members of which a majority of those present are nationals of the United States. The Secretary of Defense, or the officer of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary under subsection (a) of this section, may act by proxy for any other member of the Board if that other member authorizes the proxy in writing and signs the proxy. The proxy may be counted to establish a quorum and may be used by the Secretary of Defense, or the officer of the Department of Defense designated by the Secretary under subsection (a) of this section, to cast the vote of the absent Board member and to act for that member with all the powers that member would possess if present.
