  (a) Panama Canal management, operation, and maintenance
     The Commission may manage, operate, and maintain the Panama Canal.
  (b) Establishment, maintenance, and operation of activities, facilities, and appurtenances
     The Commission may construct or acquire, establish, maintain, and operate such activities, facilities, and appurtenances as necessary and appropriate for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter, including the following:
    (1) Docks, wharves, piers, and other shoreline facilities.
    (2) Shops and yards.
    (3) Marine railways, salvage and towing facilities, fuel-handling facilities, and motor transportation facilities.
    (4) Power systems, water systems, and a telephone system.
    (5) Construction facilities.
    (6) Living quarters and other buildings.
    (7) Warehouses, storehouses, a printing plant, and manufacturing, processing, or service facilities in connection therewith.
    (8) Recreational facilities.
  (c) Use of United States mails
     The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as the executive departments of the Federal Government.
  (d) Necessary or appropriate actions
     The Commission may take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers specifically conferred upon it.
  (e) Commercial activities
     The Commission may conduct and promote commercial activities related to the management, operation, or maintenance of the Panama Canal. Any such commercial activity shall be carried out consistent with the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements.
  (f) Donations
    (1) The Commission may seek and accept donations of funds, property, and services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private and public entities for the purpose of carrying out its promotional activities.
    (2) The Commission shall establish written guidelines setting forth the criteria to be used in determining whether the acceptance of funds, property, or services authorized by paragraph (1) would reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the Commission (or any employee of the Commission) to carry out its responsibilities or official duties in a fair and objective manner or would compromise the integrity or the appearance of the integrity of its programs or of any official in those programs.
