  (a) Oath; compliance with laws of United States regarding duties and responsibilities of Federal employees
     Before assuming the duties of his office or employment, each member of the Board of the Commission and each officer and employee of the Commission shall take an oath to discharge faithfully the duties of his office or employment. All employees of the Commission shall be subject to the laws of the United States regarding duties and responsibilities of Federal employees.
  (b) Adoption of code of conduct; time limit; contents
     Not later than 60 days after all the members of the Board of the Commission have been appointed, the Board shall adopt a code of conduct applicable to the persons referred to in subsection (a) of this section. The code of conduct shall contain provisions substantially equivalent to those contained in part 735 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations on October 1, 1979. The code of conduct shall, at a minimum, contain provisions substantially equivalent to the following provisions of law:
    (1) the provisions of chapter 11 of title 18, relating to bribery, graft, or conflicts of interest, as appropriate to the employees concerned;
    (2) section 7352 of title 5;
    (3) sections 207, 208, 285, 508, 641, 645, 1001, 1917, and 2071 of title 18;
    (4) section 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31;
    (5) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 1824), as amended; and
    (6) those provisions of the laws and regulations of the Republic of Panama which are substantially equivalent to those of the United States set forth in this subsection.
  (c) Investigations by Commission respecting violations; recommendations for suspension
     The Commission shall investigate any allegations regarding the violation of the code of conduct adopted pursuant to subsection (b) of this section. The Commission may recommend that the President suspend from the performance of his duties any member of the Board of the Commission or any officer or employee of the Commission, pending judicial proceedings by appropriate authorities concerning such allegations.
  (d) Measures to insure compliance with code of conduct
     The President shall negotiate suitable arrangements with the Republic of Panama whereby each nation shall agree to take all measures within its legal authority to assure that members of the Board of the Commission comply with the code of conduct established pursuant to subsection (b) of this section. Without prejudice to such jurisdiction as the United States may have with respect to members of the Board, the provisions of law enumerated in subsection (b) of this section shall be enforced with respect to members of the Board only in accordance with such arrangements.
  (e) Waiver of post-employment restrictions
    (1) Section 207 of title 18 does not apply to a covered individual with respect to acts done in carrying out official duties as an officer or employee of the Panama Canal Authority.
    (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), a covered individual is an officer or employee of the Panama Canal Authority who was an officer or employee of the Commission (other than the Administrator) and whose employment with the Commission terminated at noon on the Canal Transfer Date.
    (3) This subsection is effective as of the Canal Transfer Date.
  (f) Consent for acceptance of employment by Panama Canal Authority
    (1) The Congress consents to the following persons accepting civil employment (and compensation for that employment) with the Panama Canal Authority for which the consent of the Congress is required by the last paragraph of section 9 of article I of the Constitution of the United States, relating to acceptance of emoluments, offices, or titles from a foreign government:
      (A) Retired members of the uniformed services.
      (B) Members of a reserve component of the armed forces.
      (C) Members of the Commissioned Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
    (2) The consent of the Congress under paragraph (1) is effective without regard to subsection (b) of section 908 of title 37 (relating to approval required for employment of Reserve and retired members by foreign governments).
