  (a) Terms and conditions of employment
    (1) With respect to any individual employed in the Panama Canal Company or the Canal Zone Government–
      (A) who is transferred–
        (i) to a position in the Commission; or
        (ii) to a position in an Executive agency or in the Smithsonian Institution the permanent duty station of which is in the Republic of Panama (including the area known before October 1, 1979, as the Canal Zone); or
      (B) who is separated by reason of a reduction in force on September 30, 1979, and is appointed to a position in the Commission before April 1, 1980;
         the terms and conditions of employment set forth in paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be generally no less favorable, on or after the date of the transfer referred to in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph or the date of the appointment referred to in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, as the case may be, than the terms and conditions of employment with the Panama Canal Company and Canal Zone Government on September 30, 1979, or, in the case of a transfer described in subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph which takes place before that date, on the date of the transfer.
    (2) The terms and conditions of employment referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection are the following:
      (A) (B) Repealed. Pub. L. 105–261, div. C, title XXXV, § 3507(a), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2269.
  (C) premium pay and night differential;
  (D) reinstatement and restoration rights;
  (E) injury and death compensation benefits;
  (F) to (H) Repealed. Pub. L. 105–261, div. C, title XXXV, § 3507(a), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2269.
    (I) reduction-in-force rights;
    (J) an employee grievance system, and the right to appeal adverse and disciplinary actions and position classification actions;
    (K) veterans“ preference eligibility;
    (L) holidays;
    (M) saved pay provisions; and
    (N) severance pay benefits.
  (b) Break in service
     Any individual described in subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section who would have met the service requirement for early retirement benefits under section 8336(i) or 8339(d)(2) of title 5 (as amended by sections 1241(a) and 1242 of this Act, respectively), but for a break in service of more than 3 days immediately after September 30, 1979, shall be considered to meet that requirement. Any break in service by any such individual for purposes of section 8332 of such title 5 during the period beginning September 30, 1979, and ending on the date of the appointment referred to in such subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section shall be considered a period of creditable service under such section 8332 for such individual, except that such period shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining average pay (as defined in section 8331(4) of such title 5) and no deduction, contribution, or deposit shall be required for that period under section 8334 of such title 5.
  (c) Applicability of sections 903(c) and 904(a)(2) of title 20; sabbaticals
    (1) Section 903(c) of title 20 shall not apply with respect to any teacher who was employed by the Canal Zone Government school system on September 30, 1979, and who was transferred from such position to a teaching position which is under the Department of Defense Overseas Dependent School System and the permanent duty station of which is in the Republic of Panama, until the rates of basic compensation established under section 903(c) of title 20 equal or exceed the rates of basic compensation then in effect for teachers who were so transferred.
    (2) Section 904(a)(2) of title 20 shall not apply with respect to any teacher who was employed by the Canal Zone Government school system on September 30, 1979, and who was transferred from such position to a teaching position which is under the Department of Defense Overseas Dependent School System and the permanent duty station of which is in the Republic of Panama.
    (3)      (A) The head of a department or agency of the United States may grant a sabbatical to any teacher to whom paragraph (1) of this subsection applies for not to exceed 11 months in order to permit the teacher to engage in study or uncompensated work experience which is in the United States and which will contribute to the teacher“s development and effectiveness. Basic compensation shall be paid to teachers on sabbatical under this section in the same manner and to the same extent as basic compensation would have been paid to teachers on sabbatical while employed in the Canal Zone Government school system on September 30, 1979. A sabbatical shall not result in a loss of, or reduction in, leave to which the teacher is otherwise entitled, credit for time or service, or performance or efficiency rating. The head of the department or agency may authorize in accordance with chapter 57 of title 5 such travel expenses (including per diem allowance) as the head of the department or agency may determine to be essential for the study or experience.
      (B) A sabbatical under this paragraph may not be granted to any teacher–
        (i) more than once in any 10-year period;
        (ii) unless the teacher has completed 7 years of service as a teacher; and
        (iii) if the teacher is eligible for voluntary retirement with a right to an immediate annuity.
      (C)        (i) Any teacher in a department or agency of the United States may be granted a sabbatical under this paragraph only if the teacher agrees, as a condition of accepting the sabbatical, to serve in the civil service upon the completion of the sabbatical for a period of two consecutive years.
        (ii) Each agreement required under clause (i) of this subparagraph shall provide that in the event the teacher fails to carry out the agreement (except for good and sufficient reason as determined by the head of the department or agency that granted the sabbatical) the teacher shall be liable to the United States for payment of all expenses (including salary) of the sabbatical. The amount shall be treated as a debt due the United States.
