  (a) Institution or center for training
     The Secretary of State shall maintain and operate an institution or center for training (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””institution““), originally established under section 701 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, in order to promote career development within the Service and to provide necessary training and instruction in the field of foreign relations to members of the Service and to employees of the Department and of other agencies. The institution shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of State.
  (b) Provision of training
     To the extent practicable, the Secretary of State shall provide training under this subchapter which meets the needs of all agencies, and other agencies shall avoid duplicating the facilities and training provided by the Secretary of State through the institution and otherwise.
  (c) Training and instruction to citizens of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
     Training and instruction may be provided at the Institute \1\N for not to exceed sixty citizens of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in order to prepare them to serve as members of the foreign services of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau. The authority of this subsection shall expire when the Compact of Free Association is approved by the Congress.
  (d) Training and instruction of employees of foreign governments
    (1) The Secretary of State is authorized to provide for special professional foreign affairs training and instruction of employees of foreign governments through the institution.
    (2) Training and instruction under paragraph (1) shall be on a reimbursable or advance-of-funds basis. Such reimbursements or advances to the Department of State may be provided by an agency of the United States Government or by a foreign government and shall be credited to the currently available applicable appropriation account.
    (3) In making such training available to employees of foreign governments, priority consideration should be given to officials of newly emerging democratic nations and then to such other countries as the Secretary determines to be in the national interest of the United States.
  (e) Training or services for United States person
    (1) The Secretary may provide appropriate training or related services, except foreign language training, through the institution to any United States person (or any employee or family member thereof) that is engaged in business abroad.
    (2) The Secretary may provide job-related training or related services, including foreign language training, through the institution to a United States person under contract to provide services to the United States Government or to any employee thereof that is performing such services.
    (3) Training under this subsection may be provided only to the extent that space is available and only on a reimbursable or advance-of-funds basis. Reimbursements and advances shall be credited to the currently available applicable appropriation account.
    (4) Training and related services under this subsection is authorized only to the extent that it will not interfere with the institution“s primary mission of training employees of the Department and of other agencies in the field of foreign relations.
    (5) In this subsection, the term ””United States person““ means–
      (A) any individual who is a citizen or national of the United States; or
      (B) any corporation, company, partnership, association, or other legal entity that is 50 percent or more beneficially owned by citizens or nationals of the United States.
  (f) Programs for Members of Congress or the Judiciary
    (1) The Secretary is authorized to provide, on a reimbursable basis, training programs to Members of Congress or the Judiciary.
    (2) Employees of the legislative branch and employees of the judicial branch may participate, on a reimbursable basis, in training programs offered by the institution.
    (3) Reimbursements collected under this subsection shall be credited to the currently available applicable appropriation account.
    (4) Training under this subsection is authorized only to the extent that it will not interfere with the institution“s primary mission of training employees of the Department and of other agencies in the field of foreign relations.
  (g) Applicability of section 4024 of this title
     The authorities of section 4024 of this title shall apply to training and instruction provided under this section.
