  (a) Rates and sources; deposits in Fund
    (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, 7 percent of the basic salary received by each participant shall be deducted from the salary and contributed to the Fund for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds, and allowances. An equal amount shall be contributed by the Department from the appropriations or fund used for payment of the salary of the participant. The Department shall deposit in the Fund the amounts deducted and withheld from basic salary and the amounts contributed by the Department.
    (2) Notwithstanding the percentage limitation contained in paragraph (1) of this subsection–
      (A) the Department shall deduct and withhold from the basic pay of a Foreign Service criminal investigator/inspector of the Office of the Inspector General, Agency for International Development, who is qualified to have his annuity computed in the same manner as that of a law enforcement officer pursuant to section 8339(d) of title 5, an amount equal to that to be withheld from a law enforcement officer pursuant to section 8334(a)(1) of title 5. The amounts so deducted shall be contributed to the Fund for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds, and allowances. An equal amount shall be contributed by the Department from the appropriations or fund used for payment of the salary of the participant. The Department shall deposit in the Fund the amount deducted and withheld from basic salary and amounts contributed by the Department.
      (B) The Department shall deduct and withhold from the basic pay of a Foreign Service criminal investigator/inspector of the Office of the Inspector General, Agency for International Development, who is qualified to have his annuity computed pursuant to section 8415(d) of title 5, an amount equal to that to be withheld from a law enforcement officer pursuant to section 8422(a)(2)(B) \1\N of title 5. The amounts so deducted shall be contributed to the Fund for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds, and allowances. An equal amount shall be contributed by the Department from the appropriations or fund used for payment of the salary of the participant. The Department shall deposit in the Fund the amounts deducted and withheld from basic salary and amounts contributed by the Department.
    (3) For service as a special agent, paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting for ””7 percent““ the percentage that applies to law enforcement officers under section 8334(a)(1) of title 5.
  (b) Consent to deduction; discharge and acquittance of claims and demands
     Each participant shall be deemed to consent and agree to such deductions from basic salary. Payment less such deductions shall be a full and complete discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands whatsoever for all regular services during the period covered by such payment, except the right to the benefits to which the participant shall be entitled under this chapter, notwithstanding any law, rule, or regulation affecting the salary of the individual.
  (c) Transfer of contributions from other Government retirement fund
    (1) If a member of the Service who is under another retirement system for Government employees becomes a participant in the System by direct transfer, the total contributions and deposits of that member that would otherwise be refundable on separation (except voluntary contributions), including interest thereon, shall be transferred to the Fund effective as of the date such member becomes a participant in the System. Each such member shall be deemed to consent to the transfer of such funds, and such transfer shall be a complete discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands against the other Government retirement fund on account of service rendered by such member prior to becoming a participant in the System.
    (2) A member of the Service whose contributions are transferred to the Fund pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not be required to make additional contributions for periods of service for which required contributions were made to the other Government retirement fund; nor shall any refund be made to any such member on account of contributions made during any period to the other Government retirement fund at a higher rate than that fixed by subsection (d) of this section.
  (d) Contribution for civilian service; creditability of interim service
    (1) Any participant credited with civilian service after July 1, 1924–
      (A) for which no retirement contributions, deductions, or deposits have been made, or
      (B) for which a refund of such contributions, deductions, or deposits has been made which has not been redeposited,
         may make a special contribution to the Fund. Special contributions for purposes of subparagraph (A) shall equal the following percentages of basic salary received for such service:
          
         Time of service:
         July 1, 1924, through October 15, 1960, inclusive D5   
         October 16, 1960, through December 31, 1969, inclusive D6\1/2\ 
         January 1, 1970, through December 31, 1998, inclusive D7   
         January 1, 1999, through December 31, 1999, inclusive D7.25
         January 1, 2000, through December 31, 2000, inclusive D7.4 
         After December 31, 2000 D7   
         Special contributions for refunds under subparagraph (B) shall equal the amount of the refund received by the participant.
    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a special contribution for prior nondeposit service as a National Guard technician which would be creditable toward retirement under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, and for which a special contribution has not been made, shall be equal to the special contribution for such service computed in accordance with the schedule in paragraph (1) multiplied by the percentage of such service that is creditable under section 4056 of this title.
    (3) Special contributions under this subsection shall include interest computed from the midpoint of each service period included in the computation, or from the date refund was paid, to the date of payment of the special contribution or commencing date of annuity, whichever is earlier. \2\N Interest shall be compounded at the annual rate of 4 percent to December 31, 1976, and 3 percent thereafter. No interest shall be charged on special contributions for any period of separation from Government service which began before October 1, 1956. Special contributions may be paid in installments (including by allotment of pay) when authorized by the Secretary of State.
    (4) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this subsection and any provision of section 206(b)(3) of the Federal Employees“ Retirement Contribution Temporary Adjustment Act of 1983, the percentage of basic pay required under this subsection in the case of a participant described in section 4071b(c) of this title shall, with respect to any covered service (as defined by section 203(a)(3) of such Act) performed by such individual after December 31, 1983, and before January 1, 1987, be equal to 1.3 percent.
    (5) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a special contribution for past service as a Foreign Service criminal investigator/inspector of the Office of the Inspector General, Agency for International Development which would have been creditable toward retirement under either section 8336(c) or 8412(d) of title 5, and for which a special contribution has not been made shall be equal to the difference between the amount actually contributed pursuant to either this section or section 4071e of this title and the amount that should have been contributed pursuant to either section 8334 or 8422 of title 5.
    (6) Subject to paragraph (4) and subsection (h) of this section, for purposes of applying this subsection with respect to prior service as a special agent, the percentages of basic pay set forth in section 8334(c) of title 5, with respect to a law enforcement officer, shall apply instead of the percentages set forth in paragraph (1).
  (e) Contribution for military or naval service
    (1) Subject to paragraph (5), each participant who has performed military or naval service before the date of separation on which the entitlement to any annuity under this part is based may pay to the Secretary a special contribution equal to 7 percent of the amount of the basic pay paid under section 204 of title 37, to the participant for each period of military or naval service after December 1956. The amount of such payments shall be based on such evidence of basic pay for military service as the participant may provide or if the Secretary determines sufficient evidence has not been so provided to adequately determine basic pay for military or naval service, such payment shall be based upon estimates of such basic pay provided to the Department under paragraph (4).
    (2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) of this subsection more than two years after the later of–
      (A) October 17, 1983, or
      (B) the date on which the participant making the deposit first became a participant in a Federal staff retirement system for civilian employees,–
         shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually beginning on the date of the expiration of the two-year period. The interest rate that is applicable in computing interest in any year under this paragraph shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable for such year under subsection (d) of this section.
    (3) Any payment received by the Secretary under this section shall be remitted to the Fund.
    (4) The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate, shall furnish such information to the Secretary as the Secretary may determine to be necessary for the administration of this subsection.
    (5) Effective with respect to any period of military or naval service after December 31, 1998, the percentage of basic pay under section 204 of title 37 payable under paragraph (1) shall be equal to the same percentage as would be applicable under section 8334(c) of title 5 for that same period for service as an employee.
  (f) Exemption for certain military or naval service
     Contributions shall only be required to obtain credit for periods of military or naval service to the extent provided under subsection (e) of this section and section 4056(a) of this title, except that credit shall be allowed in the absence of contributions to individuals of Japanese ancestry under section 4056 of this title for periods of internment during World War II.
  (g) Time of payment; offset against initial annuity accruals
     A participant or survivor may make a special contribution at any time before receipt of annuity and may authorize payment by offset against initial annuity accruals.
  (h) Computation of contributions for participants with certain creditable civilian service
     Effective with respect to pay periods beginning after December 31, 1986, in administering this section with respect to a participant described in section 4071b(c) of this title whose service is employment for the purposes of title II of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.] and chapter 21 of title 26, contributions to the Fund and interest thereon shall be computed as if section 8334(k) of title 5 were applicable.
