  (a) Establishment; composition
     There is established within the Federal Labor Relations Authority the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board. The Board shall be composed of 3 members, 1 of whom shall be the Chairman of the Authority, who shall be the Chairperson of the Board. The remaining 2 members shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board from nominees approved in writing by the agencies to which this subchapter applies, and the exclusive representative (if any) of employees in each such agency. In the event of inability to obtain agreement on a nominee, the Chairperson shall appoint the remaining 2 members from among individuals the Chairperson considers knowledgeable in labor-management relations and the conduct of foreign affairs.
  (b) Chairperson serving concurrently as Chairman of Authority; length of terms; designation of alternate Chairperson
     The Chairperson shall serve on the Board while serving as Chairman of the Authority. Of the 2 original members of the Board other than the Chairperson, one shall be appointed for a 2-year term and one shall be appointed for a 3-year term. Thereafter, each member of the Board other than the Chairperson shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that an individual appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the end of a term shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member replaced. The Chairperson may at any time designate an alternate Chairperson from among the members of the Authority.
  (c) Vacancies
     A vacancy on the Board shall not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise the full powers of the Board.
  (d) Holding other Government offices or positions; compensation
     The members of the Board, other than the Chairperson, may not hold another office or position in the Government except as authorized by law, and shall receive compensation at the daily equivalent of the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5 for each day they are performing their duties (including traveltime).
  (e) Removal of members
     The Chairperson may remove any other Board member, upon written notice, for corruption, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or demonstrated incapacity to perform his or her functions, established at a hearing, except where the right to a hearing is waived in writing.
