  (a) Establishment; composition
     There is established within the Federal Labor Relations Authority the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel, which shall assist in resolving negotiating impasses arising in the course of collective bargaining under this subchapter. The Chairperson shall select the Panel from among individuals the Chairperson considers knowledgeable in labor-management relations or the conduct of foreign affairs. The Panel shall be composed of 5 members, as follows:
    (1) 2 members of the Service (other than a management official, a confidential employee, or a labor organization official);
    (2) one individual employed by the Department of Labor;
    (3) one member of the Federal Service Impasses Panel; and
    (4) one public member who does not hold any other office or position in the Government.
       The Chairperson of the Board shall set the terms of office for Panel members and determine who shall chair the Panel.
  (b) Compensation; travel expenses
     Panel members referred to in subsection (a)(3) and (4) of this section shall receive compensation for each day they are performing their duties (including traveltime) at the daily equivalent of the maximum rate payable for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, except that the member who is also a member of the Federal Service Impasses Panel shall not be entitled to pay under this subsection for any day for which he or she receives pay under section 7119(b)(4) \1\N of title 5. Members of the Panel shall be entitled to travel expenses as provided under section 5703 of title 5.
  (c) Impasse investigation and settlement; hearings and other actions upon failure to settle; notice; binding nature of action
    (1) The Panel or its designee shall promptly investigate any impasse presented to it by a party. The Panel shall consider the impasse and shall either–
      (A) recommend to the parties to the negotiation procedures for the resolution of the impasse; or
      (B) assist the parties in resolving the impasse through whatever methods and procedures, including factfinding and recommendations, it may consider appropriate to accomplish the purpose of this section.
    (2) If the parties do not arrive at a settlement after assistance by the Panel under paragraph (1), the Panel may–
      (A) hold hearings;
      (B) administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any individual under oath, and issue subpenas as provided in section 7132 of title 5; and
      (C) take whatever action is necessary and not inconsistent with this subchapter to resolve the impasse.
    (3) Notice of any final action of the Panel under this section shall be promptly served upon the parties, and the action shall be binding on such parties during the term of the collective bargaining agreement unless the parties agree otherwise.
