  (a) Establishment
     There is hereby established the United States Institute of Peace.
  (b) Status; restrictions
     The Institute is an independent nonprofit corporation and an organization described in section 170(c)(2)(B) of title 26. The Institute does not have the power to issue any shares of stock or to declare or pay any dividends.
  (c) Establishment and functions of an ””Endowment of the United States Institute for Peace““
     As determined by the Board, the Institute may establish, under the laws of the District of Columbia, a legal entity which is capable of receiving, holding, and investing public funds for purposes in furtherance of the Institute under this chapter. The Institute may designate such legal entity as the ””Endowment of the United States Institute for Peace““.
  (d) Liability for acts within scope of authority
     The Institute is liable for the acts of its directors, officers, employees, and agents when acting within the scope of their authority.
  (e) Trade name and trademark rights; vested rights protected; condition for use of Federal identity
    (1) The Institute has the sole and exclusive right to use and to allow or refuse others the use of the terms ””United States Institute of Peace““, ””Jennings Randolph Program for International Peace““, ””Spark M. Matsunaga Medal of Peace““, and ””Endowment of the United States Institute of Peace““ and the use of any official United States Institute of Peace emblem, badge, seal, and other mark of recognition or any colorable simulation thereof. No powers or privileges hereby granted shall interfere or conflict with established or vested rights secured as of September 1, 1981.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Institute may use ””United States““ or ””U.S.““ or any other reference to the United States Government or Nation in its title or in its corporate seal, emblem, badge, or other mark of recognition or colorable simulation thereof in any fiscal year only if there is an authorization of appropriations for the Institute for such fiscal year provided by law.
