  (a) Evidence
    (1) United States Government personnel and contractors
      (A) With respect to any individual described in subparagraph (B), a Board may–
        (i) administer oaths and affirmations;
        (ii) require that depositions be given and interrogatories answered; and
        (iii) require the attendance and presentation of testimony and evidence by such individual.
       Failure of any such individual to comply with a request of the Board shall be grounds for disciplinary action by the head of the Federal agency in which such individual is employed or serves, or in the case of a contractor, debarment.
      (B) The individuals referred to in subparagraph (A) are–
        (i) employees as defined by section 2105 of title 5 (including members of the Foreign Service);
        (ii) members of the uniformed services as defined by section 101(3) of title 37;
        (iii) employees of instrumentalities of the United States; and
        (iv) individuals employed by any person or entity under contract with agencies or instrumentalities of the United States Government to provide services, equipment, or personnel.
    (2) Other persons
       With respect to a person who is not described in paragraph (1)(B), a Board may administer oaths and affirmations and require that depositions be given and interrogatories answered.
    (3) Subpoenas
      (A) The Board may issue a subpoena for the attendance and testimony of any person (other than a person described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of paragraph (1)(B)) and the production of documentary or other evidence from any such person if the Board finds that such a subpoena is necessary in the interests of justice for the development of relevant evidence.
      (B) In the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued under this paragraph, a court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which a person is directed to appear or produce information, or within the jurisdiction of which the person is found, resides, or transacts business, may upon application of the Attorney General, issue to such person an order requiring such person to appear before the Board to give testimony or produce information as required by the subpoena.
      (C) Subpoenaed witnesses shall be paid the same fee and mileage allowances which are paid subpoenaed witnesses in the courts of the United States.
  (b) Confidentiality
     A Board shall adopt for administrative proceedings under this subchapter such procedures with respect to confidentiality as may be deemed necessary, including procedures relating to the conduct of closed proceedings or the submission and use of evidence in camera, to ensure in particular the protection of classified information relating to national defense, foreign policy, or intelligence matters. The Director of Central Intelligence shall establish the level of protection required for intelligence information and for information relating to intelligence personnel, including standards for secure storage.
  (c) Records
     Records pertaining to administrative proceedings under this subchapter shall be separated from all other records of the Department of State and shall be maintained under appropriate safeguards to preserve confidentiality and classification of information. Such records shall be prohibited from disclosure to the public until such time as a Board completes its work and is dismissed. The Department of State shall turn over to the Director of Central Intelligence intelligence information and information relating to intelligence personnel which shall then become records of the Central Intelligence Agency. After that time, only such exemptions from disclosure under section 552(b) of title 5 (relating to freedom of information), as apply to other records of the Department of State, and to any information transmitted under section 4834(c) of this title to the head of a Federal agency or instrumentality, shall be available for the remaining records of the Board.
  (d) Status of Boards
     The provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 1 et seq.) and section 552b of title 5 (relating to open meetings) shall not apply to any Board.
