  (a) Technical training program
     The Agency for International Development shall develop and implement a program for extending basic agribusiness, commercial, entrepreneurial, financial, scientific, and technical skills to the people of Poland and Hungary to enable them to better meet their needs and develop a market economy. This program shall include management training and agricultural extension activities.
  (b) Participation by Enterprise Funds and other agencies and organizations
     In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Agency for International Development may utilize the Polish-American Enterprise Fund and the Hungarian-American Enterprise Fund and other appropriate Government and private agencies, programs, and organizations such as–
    (1) the Department of Agriculture;
    (2) the Farmer-to-Farmer Program under section 1736(a)(1) and (2) of title 7;
    (3) the International Executive Service Corps;
    (4) the Foundation for the Development of Polish Agriculture;
    (5) the World Council of Credit Unions; and
    (6) other United States, Polish, and Hungarian private and voluntary organizations and private sector entities.
  (c) Nonapplicability of other provisions of law
     Assistance provided pursuant to subsection (a) of this section under the authorities of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.] may be provided notwithstanding any other provision of law.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     For purposes of implementing this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for the 3-year period beginning October 1, 1989, to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 and following; relating to development assistance), in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
  (e) Limitation with respect to Farmer-to-Farmer Program
     Any activities carried out pursuant to this chapter through the Farmer-to-Farmer Program under section 1736(a)(1) and (2) of title 7 shall be funded with funds authorized to be appropriated by this chapter and local currencies made available under section 5425 of this title, and shall not be funded with funds made available pursuant to section 1107 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736 note) or a similar, subsequent provision of law.
