  (a) Assistance for international nonproliferation activities
     Subject to the limitations and requirements provided in this section, the Secretary of Defense, under the guidance of the President, may provide assistance to support international nonproliferation activities.
  (b) Activities for which assistance may be provided
     Activities for which assistance may be provided under this section are activities such as the following:
    (1) Activities carried out by international organizations that are designed to ensure more effective safeguards against proliferation and more effective verification of compliance with international agreements on nonproliferation.
    (2) Activities of the Department of Defense in support of the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq (or any successor organization).
    (3) Collaborative international nuclear security and nuclear safety projects to combat the threat of nuclear theft, terrorism, or accidents, including joint emergency response exercises, technical assistance, and training.
    (4) Efforts to improve international cooperative monitoring of nuclear, biological, chemical, and missile proliferation through technical projects and improved information sharing.
  (c) Form of assistance
    (1) Assistance under this section may include funds and in-kind contributions of supplies, equipment, personnel, training, and other forms of assistance.
    (2) Assistance under this section may be provided to international organizations in the form of funds only if the amount in the ””Contributions to International Organizations““ account of the Department of State is insufficient or otherwise unavailable to meet the United States fair share of assessments for international nuclear nonproliferation activities.
    (3) No amount may be obligated for an expenditure under this section unless the Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines that the expenditure will be counted as discretionary spending in the national defense budget function (function 050).
    (4) No assistance may be furnished under this section unless the Secretary of Defense determines and certifies to the Congress 30 days in advance that the provision of such assistance–
      (A) is in the national security interest of the United States; and
      (B) will not adversely affect the military preparedness of the United States.
    (5) The authority to provide assistance under this section in the form of funds may be exercised only to the extent and in the amounts provided in advance in appropriations Act.
  (d) Sources of assistance
    (1) Funds provided as assistance under this section for any fiscal year shall be derived from amounts made available to the Department of Defense for that fiscal year. Funds provided as assistance under this section for a fiscal year may also be derived from balances in working capital accounts of the Department of Defense.
    (2) Supplies and equipment provided as assistance under this section may be provided, by loan or donation, from existing stocks of the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy.
    (3) The total amount of the assistance provided in the form of funds under this section, including funds used for activities of the Department of Defense in support of the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq, may not exceed $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1996, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1997, or $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1998.
    (4)      (A) In the event of a significant unforeseen development related to the activities of the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq (or any successor organization) for which the Secretary of Defense determines that financial assistance under this section is required at a level which would result in the total amount of assistance provided under this section during the then-current fiscal year exceeding the amount of any limitation provided by law on the total amount of such assistance for that fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may provide such assistance with respect to that fiscal year notwithstanding that limitation. Funds for such purpose may be derived from any funds available to the Department of Defense for that fiscal year.
      (B) Financial assistance may be provided under subparagraph (A) only after the Secretary of Defense provides notice in writing to the committees of Congress named in subsection (e)(2) of this section of the significant unforeseen development and of the Secretary“s intent to provide assistance in excess of the limitation for that fiscal year. However, if the Secretary determines in any case that under the specific circumstances of that case advance notice is not possible, such notice shall be provided as soon as possible and not later than 15 days after the date on which the assistance is provided. Any notice under this subparagraph shall include a description of the development, the amount of assistance provided or to be provided, and the source of the funds for that assistance.
  (e) Quarterly report
    (1) Not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of a fiscal year during which the authority of the Secretary of Defense to provide assistance under this section is in effect, the Secretary of Defense shall transmit to the committees of Congress named in paragraph (2) a report of the activities to reduce the proliferation threat carried out under this section. Each report shall set forth (for the preceding quarter and cumulatively)–
      (A) the amounts spent for such activities and the purposes for which they were spent;
      (B) a description of the participation of the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy and the participation of other Government agencies in those activities; and
      (C) a description of the activities for which the funds were spent.
    (2) The committees of Congress to which reports under paragraph (1) are to be transmitted are–
      (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
      (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on International Relations, and the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives.
  (f) Termination of authority
     The authority of the Secretary of Defense to provide assistance under this section terminates at the close of fiscal year 2002.
