  (a) In general
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may conduct programs described in subsection (b) of this section to assist the independent states of the former Soviet Union in the demilitarization of the former Soviet Union. Any such program may be carried out only to the extent that the President determines that the program will directly contribute to the national security interests of the United States.
  (b) Authorized programs
     The programs referred to in subsection (a) of this section are the following:
    (1) Programs to facilitate the elimination, and the safe and secure transportation and storage, of nuclear, chemical, and other weapons and their delivery vehicles.
    (2) Programs to facilitate the safe and secure storage of fissile materials derived from the elimination of nuclear weapons.
    (3) Programs to prevent the proliferation of weapons, weapons components, and weapons-related technology and expertise.
    (4) Programs to expand military-to-military and defense contacts.
    (5) Programs to facilitate the demilitarization of defense industries and the conversion of military technologies and capabilities into civilian activities.
    (6) Programs to assist in the environmental restoration of former military sites and installations when such restoration is necessary to the demilitarization or conversion programs authorized in paragraph (5).
    (7) Programs to provide housing for former military personnel of the former Soviet Union released from military service in connection with the dismantlement of strategic nuclear weapons, when provision of such housing is necessary for dismantlement of strategic nuclear weapons and when no other funds are available for such housing.
    (8) Other programs as described in section 212(b) of the Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102–228; 22 U.S.C. 2551 note) and section 5902(b) of this title.
  (c) United States participation
     The programs described in subsection (b) of this section should, to the extent feasible, draw upon United States technology and expertise, especially from the private sector of the United States.
  (d) Restrictions
     Assistance authorized by subsection (a) of this section may not be provided to any independent state of the former Soviet Union for any year unless the President certifies to Congress for that year that the proposed recipient state is committed to each of the following:
    (1) Making substantial investment of its resources for dismantling or destroying its weapons of mass destruction, if such state has an obligation under a treaty or other agreement to destroy or dismantle any such weapons.
    (2) Foregoing any military modernization program that exceeds legitimate defense requirements and foregoing the replacement of destroyed weapons of mass destruction.
    (3) Foregoing any use in new nuclear weapons of fissionable or other components of destroyed nuclear weapons.
    (4) Facilitating United States verification of any weapons destruction carried out under this chapter, section 5902(b) of this title, or section 212(b) of the Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102–228; 22 U.S.C. 2551 note).
    (5) Complying with all relevant arms control agreements.
    (6) Observing internationally recognized human rights, including the protection of minorities.
