  (a) Metrics required
     The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement metrics to measure the impact and effectiveness of activities of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program of the Department of Defense to address threats arising from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, and biological weapons and weapons-related materials, technologies, and expertise.
  (b) Secretary of Defense report on metrics
     Not later than 270 days after October 28, 2009, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing the metrics developed and implemented under subsection (a).
  (c) National Academy of Sciences assessment and report on metrics
    (1) Assessment
       Not later than 30 days after the date on which the report is submitted by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (b), the Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences under which the Academy shall carry out an assessment to review the metrics developed and implemented under subsection (a) and identify possible additional or alternative metrics, if necessary.
    (2) Report
       The National Academy of Sciences shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and the Secretary of Defense a report on the results of the assessment carried out under paragraph (1).
    (3) Secretary of Defense report
      (A) Not later than 90 days after receipt of the report required by paragraph (2), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the assessment carried out by the National Academy of Sciences.
      (B) The report under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
        (i) A summary of the results of the assessment carried out under paragraph (1).
        (ii) An evaluation by the Secretary of the assessment.
        (iii) A statement of the actions, if any, to be undertaken by the Secretary to implement any recommendations in the assessment.
      (C) The report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
  (d) Funding
     Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 301(20) \1\N or otherwise made available for Cooperative Threat Reduction Programs for fiscal year 2010, not more than $1,000,000 may be obligated or expended to carry out paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c).
  (e) Appropriate congressional committees defined
     In this section, the term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means–
    (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
    (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
