  (a) Authorities
     The Board shall have the following authorities:
    (1) To supervise all broadcasting activities conducted pursuant to this chapter, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465 et seq.],,\1\N the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.], and Worldnet Television, except as provided in section 6205(b) of this title.
    (2) To review and evaluate the mission and operation of, and to assess the quality, effectiveness, and professional integrity of, all such activities within the context of the broad foreign policy objectives of the United States.
    (3) To ensure that United States international broadcasting is conducted in accordance with the standards and principles contained in section 6202 of this title.
    (4) To review, evaluate, and determine, at least annually,,\1\ after consultation with the Secretary of State, the addition or deletion of language services.
    (5) To make and supervise grants for broadcasting and related activities in accordance with sections 6207 and 6208 of this title.
    (6) To allocate funds appropriated for international broadcasting activities among the various elements of the International Broadcasting Bureau and grantees, subject to the limitations in sections 6207 and 6208 of this title and subject to reprogramming notification requirements in law for the reallocation of funds.
    (7) To review engineering activities to ensure that all broadcasting elements receive the highest quality and cost-effective delivery services.
    (8) To undertake such studies as may be necessary to identify areas in which broadcasting activities under its authority could be made more efficient and economical.
    (9) To submit to the President and the Congress an annual report which summarizes and evaluates activities under this chapter, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465 et seq.], and the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.]. Each annual report shall place special emphasis on the assessment described in paragraph (2).
    (10) To the extent considered necessary to carry out the functions of the Board, procure supplies, services, and other personal property.
    (11) To appoint such staff personnel for the Board as the Board may determine to be necessary, subject to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and to fix their compensation in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
    (12) To obligate and expend, for official reception and representation expenses, such amount as may be made available through appropriations (which for each of the fiscal years 1998 and 1999 may not exceed the amount made available to the Board and the International Broadcasting Bureau for such purposes for fiscal year 1997).
    (13) To make available in the annual report required by paragraph (9) information on funds expended on administrative and managerial services by the Bureau and by grantees and the steps the Board has taken to reduce unnecessary overhead costs for each of the broadcasting services.
    (14) The Board may provide for the use of United States Government transmitter capacity for relay of Radio Free Asia.
    (15)      (A) To procure temporary and intermittent personal services to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109 of title 5, at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent of the rate provided for positions classified above grade GS–15 of the General Schedule under section 5108 of title 5.
      (B) To allow those providing such services, while away from their homes or their regular places of business, travel expenses (including per diem in lieu of subsistence) as authorized by section 5703 of title 5 for persons in the Government service employed intermittently, while so employed.
    (16) To procure, pursuant to section 1535 of title 31 (commonly known as the ””Economy Act““), such goods and services from other departments or agencies for the Board and the International Broadcasting Bureau as the Board determines are appropriate.
    (17) To utilize the provisions of titles III, IV, V, VII, VIII, IX, and X of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 [22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.], and section 6 of Reorganization Plan Number 2 of 1977, as in effect on the day before the effective date of title XIII of the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 1998, to the extent the Board considers necessary in carrying out the provisions and purposes of this chapter.
    (18) To utilize the authorities of any other statute, reorganization plan, Executive order, regulation, agreement, determination, or other official document or proceeding that had been available to the Director of the United States Information Agency, the Bureau, or the Board before the effective date of title XIII of the Foreign Affairs Consolidation Act of 1998 for carrying out the broadcasting activities covered by this chapter.
  (b) Delegation of authority
     The Board may delegate to the Director of the International Broadcasting Bureau, or any other officer or employee of the United States, to the extent the Board determines to be appropriate, the authorities provided in this section, except those authorities provided in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), or (11) of subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) Broadcasting budgets
     The Director of the Bureau and the grantees identified in sections 6207 and 6208 of this title shall submit proposed budgets to the Board. The Board shall forward its recommendations concerning the proposed budget for the Board and broadcasting activities under this chapter, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465 et seq.], and the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act [22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.] to the Office of Management and Budget.
  (d) Professional independence of broadcasters
     The Secretary of State and the Board, in carrying out their functions, shall respect the professional independence and integrity of the International Broadcasting Bureau, its broadcasting services, and the grantees of the Board.
