  (a) Authority
    (1) Grants authorized under section 6204 of this title shall be available to make annual grants for the purpose of carrying out radio broadcasting to the following countries: The People“s Republic of China, Burma, Cambodia, Laos, North Korea, Tibet, and Vietnam.
    (2) Such broadcasting service shall be referred to as ””Radio Free Asia““.
  (b) Functions
     Radio Free Asia shall–
    (1) provide accurate and timely information, news, and commentary about events in the respective countries of Asia and elsewhere; and
    (2) be a forum for a variety of opinions and voices from within Asian nations whose people do not fully enjoy freedom of expression.
  (c) Grant agreement
     Any grant agreement or grants under this section shall be subject to the following limitations and restrictions:
    (1) The Board may not make any grant to Radio Free Asia unless the headquarters of Radio Free Asia and its senior administrative and managerial staff are in a location which ensures economy, operational effectiveness, and accountability to the Board.
    (2) Any grant agreement under this section shall require that any contract entered into by Radio Free Asia shall specify that all obligations are assumed by Radio Free Asia and not by the United States Government, and shall further specify that funds to carry out the activities of Radio Free Asia may not be available after September 30, 2010.
    (3) Any grant agreement shall require that any lease agreements entered into by Radio Free Asia shall be, to the maximum extent possible, assignable to the United States Government.
    (4) Grants made for the operating costs of Radio Free Asia may not exceed $30,000,000 in each of the fiscal years 2000 and 2001.
    (5) Grants awarded under this section shall be made pursuant to a grant agreement which requires that grant funds be used only for activities consistent with this section, and that failure to comply with such requirements shall permit the grant to be terminated without fiscal obligation to the United States.
  (d) Limitations on administrative and managerial costs
     It is the sense of the Congress that administrative and managerial costs for operation of Radio Free Asia should be kept to a minimum and, to the maximum extent feasible, should not exceed the costs that would have been incurred if Radio Free Asia had been operated as a Federal entity rather than as a grantee.
  (e) Assessment of effectiveness of Radio Free Asia
     Not later than 3 years after the date on which initial funding is provided for the purpose of operating Radio Free Asia, the Board shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on–
    (1) whether Radio Free Asia is technically sound and cost-effective,
    (2) whether Radio Free Asia consistently meets the standards for quality and objectivity established by this chapter,
    (3) whether Radio Free Asia is received by a sufficient audience to warrant its continuation,
    (4) the extent to which such broadcasting is already being received by the target audience from other credible sources; and
    (5) the extent to which the interests of the United States are being served by maintaining broadcasting of Radio Free Asia.
  (f) Sunset provision
     The Board may not make any grant for the purpose of operating Radio Free Asia after September 30, 2010.
  (g) Notification and consultation regarding displacement of Voice of America broadcasting
     The Board shall notify the appropriate congressional committees before entering into any agreements for the utilization of Voice of America transmitters, equipment, or other resources that will significantly reduce the broadcasting activities of the Voice of America in Asia or any other region in order to accommodate the broadcasting activities of Radio Free Asia. The Chairman of the Board shall consult with such committees on the impact of any such reduction in Voice of America broadcasting activities.
  (h) Not a Federal agency or instrumentality
     Nothing in this chapter may be construed to make Radio Free Asia a Federal agency or instrumentality.
