  (a) Description of Presidential actions
     Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the Presidential actions referred to in this subsection are the following:
    (1) A private demarche.
    (2) An official public demarche.
    (3) A public condemnation.
    (4) A public condemnation within one or more multilateral fora.
    (5) The delay or cancellation of one or more scientific exchanges.
    (6) The delay or cancellation of one or more cultural exchanges.
    (7) The denial of one or more working, official, or state visits.
    (8) The delay or cancellation of one or more working, official, or state visits.
    (9) The withdrawal, limitation, or suspension of United States development assistance in accordance with section 2151n of this title.
    (10) Directing the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, or the Trade and Development Agency not to approve the issuance of any (or a specified number of) guarantees, insurance, extensions of credit, or participations in the extension of credit with respect to the specific government, agency, instrumentality, or official found or determined by the President to be responsible for violations under section 6441 or 6442 of this title.
    (11) The withdrawal, limitation, or suspension of United States security assistance in accordance with section 2304 of this title.
    (12) Consistent with section 262d of this title, directing the United States executive directors of international financial institutions to oppose and vote against loans primarily benefiting the specific foreign government, agency, instrumentality, or official found or determined by the President to be responsible for violations under section 6441 or 6442 of this title.
    (13) Ordering the heads of the appropriate United States agencies not to issue any (or a specified number of) specific licenses, and not to grant any other specific authority (or a specified number of authorities), to export any goods or technology to the specific foreign government, agency, instrumentality, or official found or determined by the President to be responsible for violations under section 6441 or 6442 of this title, under–
      (A) the Export Administration Act of 1979 [50 App. U.S.C. 2401 et seq.];
      (B) the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.];
      (C) the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.]; or
      (D) any other statute that requires the prior review and approval of the United States Government as a condition for the export or reexport of goods or services.
    (14) Prohibiting any United States financial institution from making loans or providing credits totaling more than $10,000,000 in any 12-month period to the specific foreign government, agency, instrumentality, or official found or determined by the President to be responsible for violations under section 6441 or 6442 of this title.
    (15) Prohibiting the United States Government from procuring, or entering into any contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the foreign government, entities, or officials found or determined by the President to be responsible for violations under section 6441 or 6442 of this title.
  (b) Commensurate action
     Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the President may substitute any other action authorized by law for any action described in paragraphs (1) through (15) of subsection (a) of this section if such action is commensurate in effect to the action substituted and if the action would further the policy of the United States set forth in section 6401(b) of this title. The President shall seek to take all appropriate and feasible actions authorized by law to obtain the cessation of the violations. If commensurate action is taken, the President shall report such action, together with an explanation for taking such action, to the appropriate congressional committees.
  (c) Binding agreements
     The President may negotiate and enter into a binding agreement with a foreign government that obligates such government to cease, or take substantial steps to address and phase out, the act, policy, or practice constituting the violation of religious freedom. The entry into force of a binding agreement for the cessation of the violations shall be a primary objective for the President in responding to a foreign government that has engaged in or tolerated particularly severe violations of religious freedom.
  (d) Exceptions
     Any action taken pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section may not prohibit or restrict the provision of medicine, medical equipment or supplies, food, or other humanitarian assistance.
