  (a) Authority of Secretary of State
    (1) In general
       Under the direction of the President, the Secretary of State shall coordinate all United States assistance in accordance with this section, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).
    (2) Export promotion activities
       Coordination of activities relating to promotion of exports of United States goods and services shall continue to be primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of Commerce.
    (3) International economic activities
       Coordination of activities relating to United States participation in international financial institutions and relating to organization of multilateral efforts aimed at currency stabilization, currency convertibility, debt reduction, and comprehensive economic reform programs shall continue to be primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (4) Authorities and powers of the Secretary of State
       The powers and authorities of the Secretary provided in this part are in addition to the powers and authorities provided to the Secretary under any other Act, including section 101(b) and section 622(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151(b), 2382(c)).
  (b) Coordination activities
     Coordination activities of the Secretary of State under subsection (a) of this section shall include–
    (1) approving an overall assistance and economic cooperation strategy;
    (2) ensuring program and policy coordination among agencies of the United States Government in carrying out the policies set forth in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.], the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.], and other relevant assistance Acts;
    (3) pursuing coordination with other countries and international organizations; and
    (4) resolving policy, program, and funding disputes among United States Government agencies.
  (c) Statutory construction
     Nothing in this section may be construed to lessen the accountability of any Federal agency administering any program, project, or activity of United States assistance for any funds made available to the Federal agency for that purpose.
  (d) Authority to provide personnel of Agency for International Development
     The Administrator of the Agency for International Development is authorized to detail to the Department of State on a nonreimbursable basis such personnel employed by the Agency as the Secretary of State may require to carry out this section.
