  (a) Authority to sanction significant traffickers in persons
    (1) In general
       The President may exercise the authorities set forth in section 1702 of title 50 without regard to section 1701 of title 50 in the case of any of the following persons:
      (A) Any foreign person that plays a significant role in a severe form of trafficking in persons, directly or indirectly in the United States.
      (B) Foreign persons that materially assist in, or provide financial or technological support for or to, or provide goods or services in support of, activities of a significant foreign trafficker in persons identified pursuant to subparagraph (A).
      (C) Foreign persons that are owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, a significant foreign trafficker identified pursuant to subparagraph (A).
    (2) Penalties
       The penalties set forth in section 1705 of title 50 apply to violations of any license, order, or regulation issued under this section.
  (b) Report to Congress on identification and sanctioning of significant traffickers in persons
    (1) In general
       Upon exercising the authority of subsection (a) of this section, the President shall report to the appropriate congressional committees–
      (A) identifying publicly the foreign persons that the President determines are appropriate for sanctions pursuant to this section and the basis for such determination; and
      (B) detailing publicly the sanctions imposed pursuant to this section.
    (2) Removal of sanctions
       Upon suspending or terminating any action imposed under the authority of subsection (a) of this section, the President shall report to the committees described in paragraph (1) on such suspension or termination.
    (3) Submission of classified information
       Reports submitted under this subsection may include an annex with classified information regarding the basis for the determination made by the President under paragraph (1)(A).
  (c) Law enforcement and intelligence activities not affected
     Nothing in this section prohibits or otherwise limits the authorized law enforcement or intelligence activities of the United States, or the law enforcement activities of any State or subdivision thereof.
  (d) Omitted
  (e) Implementation
    (1) Delegation of authority
       The President may delegate any authority granted by this section, including the authority to designate foreign persons under paragraphs (1)(B) and (1)(C) of subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) Promulgation of rules and regulations
       The head of any agency, including the Secretary of Treasury, is authorized to take such actions as may be necessary to carry out any authority delegated by the President pursuant to paragraph (1), including promulgating rules and regulations.
    (3) Opportunity for review
       Such rules and regulations shall include procedures affording an opportunity for a person to be heard in an expeditious manner, either in person or through a representative, for the purpose of seeking changes to or termination of any determination, order, designation or other action associated with the exercise of the authority in subsection (a) of this section.
  (f) Definition of foreign persons
     In this section, the term ””foreign person““ means any citizen or national of a foreign state or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States, including a foreign government official, but does not include a foreign state.
  (g) Construction
     Nothing in this section shall be construed as precluding judicial review of the exercise of the authority described in subsection (a) of this section.
