  (a) \1\N Oversight Board established
    (1) In general
       There is hereby established the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Oversight Board (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the ””Board““) as an instrumentality of the United States with the powers and authorities herein provided.
    (2) Status
       The Board shall oversee and monitor the operations of DTS-PO and shall be accountable for the duties assigned to DTS-PO under this chapter.
    (3) Membership
      (A) In general
         The Board shall consist of three members as follows:
        (i) The Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
        (ii) Two members to be appointed by the President.
      (B) Chairperson
         The chairperson of the Board shall be the Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
      (C) Terms
         Members of the Board appointed by the President shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
      (D) Quorum required
         A quorum shall consist of all members of the Board and all decisions of the Board shall require a majority vote.
    (4) Prohibition on compensation
       Members of the Board may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the Board.
    (5) Duties and authorities
       The Board shall have the following duties and authorities with respect to DTS-PO:
      (A) To review and approve overall strategies, policies, and goals established by DTS-PO for its activities.
      (B) To review and approve financial plans, budgets, and periodic financing requests developed by DTS-PO.
      (C) To review the overall performance of DTS-PO on a periodic basis, including its work, management activities, and internal controls, and the performance of DTS-PO relative to approved budget plans.
      (D) To require from DTS-PO any reports, documents, and records the Board considers necessary to carry out its oversight responsibilities.
      (E) To evaluate audits of DTS-PO.
    (6) Limitation on authority
       The CEO shall have the authority, without any prior review or approval by the Board, to make such determinations as the CEO considers appropriate and take such actions as the CEO considers appropriate with respect to the day-to-day management and operation of DTS-PO and to carry out the reforms of DTS-PO authorized by section 305 of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (section 305 of appendix G of Public Law 106–113).
