  (a) Report to Congress
     Not later than March 1, 2001, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees of jurisdiction a report which includes the following elements with respect to DTS-PO:
    (1) Clarification of the process for the CEO to report to the Board.
    (2) Details of the CEO“s duties and responsibilities.
    (3) Details of the compensation package for the CEO and other employees of DTS-PO.
    (4) Recommendations to the Overseas Security Policy Board (OSPB) for updates.
    (5) Security standards for information technology.
    (6) The upgrade precedence plan for overseas posts with national security interests.
    (7) A spending plan for the additional funds provided for the operation and improvement of DTS for fiscal year 2001.
  (b) Notification requirements
     The notification requirements of sections 413a and 415 of title 50 shall apply to DTS-PO and the Board.
  (c) Procurement authority of DTS-PO
     The procurement authorities of any of the users of DTS shall be available to the DTS-PO.
  (d) Definition of appropriate congressional committees of jurisdiction
     As used in this chapter, the term ””appropriate congressional committees of jurisdiction““ means the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on International Relations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
  (e) Statutory construction
     Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to negate or to reduce the statutory obligations of any United States department or agency head.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations for DTS-PO
     For each of the fiscal years 2002 through 2006, there are authorized to be appropriated directly to DTS-PO such sums as may be necessary to carry out the management, oversight, and security requirements of this chapter.
