   As used in this subchapter and in section 7402 of this title:
  (1) Appropriate congressional committees
     The term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
  (2) Classified national security information
     The term ””classified national security information““ means information that is classified or classifiable under Executive Order 12958 or a successor Executive order.
  (3) Covered allied persons
     The term ””covered allied persons““ means military personnel, elected or appointed officials, and other persons employed by or working on behalf of the government of a NATO member country, a major non-NATO ally (including Australia, Egypt, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Argentina, the Republic of Korea, and New Zealand), or Taiwan, for so long as that government is not a party to the International Criminal Court and wishes its officials and other persons working on its behalf to be exempted from the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.
  (4) Covered United States persons
     The term ””covered United States persons““ means members of the Armed Forces of the United States, elected or appointed officials of the United States Government, and other persons employed by or working on behalf of the United States Government, for so long as the United States is not a party to the International Criminal Court.
  (5) Extradition
     The terms ””extradition““ and ””extradite““ mean the extradition of a person in accordance with the provisions of chapter 209 of title 18 (including section 3181(b) of such title) and such terms include both extradition and surrender as those terms are defined in Article 102 of the Rome Statute.
  (6) International Criminal Court
     The term ””International Criminal Court““ means the court established by the Rome Statute.
  (7) Major non-NATO ally
     The term ””major non-NATO ally““ means a country that has been so designated in accordance with section 517 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2321k].
  (8) Participate in any peacekeeping operation under chapter VI of the charter of the United Nations or peace enforcement operation under chapter VII of the charter of the United Nations
     The term ””participate in any peacekeeping operation under chapter VI of the charter of the United Nations or peace enforcement operation under chapter VII of the charter of the United Nations““ means to assign members of the Armed Forces of the United States to a United Nations military command structure as part of a peacekeeping operation under chapter VI of the charter of the United Nations or peace enforcement operation under chapter VII of the charter of the United Nations in which those members of the Armed Forces of the United States are subject to the command or operational control of one or more foreign military officers not appointed in conformity with article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States.
  (9) Party to the International Criminal Court
     The term ””party to the International Criminal Court““ means a government that has deposited an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval, or accession to the Rome Statute, and has not withdrawn from the Rome Statute pursuant to Article 127 thereof.
  (10) Peacekeeping operation under chapter VI of the charter of the United Nations or peace enforcement operation under chapter VII of the charter of the United Nations
     The term ””peacekeeping operation under chapter VI of the charter of the United Nations or peace enforcement operation under chapter VII of the charter of the United Nations““ means any military operation to maintain or restore international peace and security that–
    (A) is authorized by the United Nations Security Council under chapter VI or VII of the charter of the United Nations; and
    (B) is paid for from assessed contributions of United Nations members that are made available for peacekeeping or peace enforcement activities.
  (11) Rome Statute
     The term ””Rome Statute““ means the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted by the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court on July 17, 1998.
  (12) Support
     The term ””support““ means assistance of any kind, including financial support, transfer of property or other material support, services, intelligence sharing, law enforcement cooperation, the training or detail of personnel, and the arrest or detention of individuals.
  (13) United States military assistance
     The term ””United States military assistance““ means–
    (A) assistance provided under chapter 2 [22 U.S.C. 2311 et seq.] or 5 [22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.] of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.); or
    (B) defense articles or defense services furnished with the financial assistance of the United States Government, including through loans and guarantees, under section 2763 of this title.
