  (a) Applicable administrative authorities
     Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, the administrative authorities under chapters 1 and 2 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2351 et seq., 2381 et seq.] shall apply to the provision of assistance under this subchapter to the same extent and in the same manner as such authorities apply to the provision of economic assistance under part I of such Act [22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.].
  (b) Use of the expertise of Afghan-Americans
     In providing assistance authorized by this subchapter, the President should–
    (1) maximize the use, to the extent feasible, of the services of Afghan-Americans who have expertise in the areas for which assistance is authorized by this subchapter; and
    (2) in the awarding of contracts and grants to implement activities authorized under this subchapter, encourage the participation of such Afghan-Americans (including organizations employing a significant number of such Afghan-Americans).
  (c) Donations of manufacturing equipment; use of colleges and universities
     In providing assistance authorized by this subchapter, the President, to the maximum extent practicable, should–
    (1) encourage the donation of appropriate excess or obsolete manufacturing and related equipment by United States businesses (including small businesses) for the reconstruction of Afghanistan; and
    (2) utilize research conducted by United States colleges and universities and the technical expertise of professionals within those institutions, particularly in the areas of agriculture and rural development.
  (d) Administrative expenses
     Of the funds made available to carry out the purposes of assistance authorized by this subchapter in any fiscal year, up to 7 percent may be used for administrative expenses of Federal departments and agencies in connection with the provision of such assistance.
  (e) Monitoring
    (1) Comptroller General
       The Comptroller General shall monitor the provision of assistance under this subchapter.
    (2) Inspector General of USAID
       The Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development shall conduct audits, inspections, and other activities, as appropriate, associated with the expenditure of the funds to carry out this subchapter.
  (f) Priority for direct assistance to the Government of Afghanistan
     To the maximum extent practicable, assistance authorized under this subchapter should be provided directly to the Government of Afghanistan (including any appropriate ministry thereof).
