  (a) Omitted
  (b) Authorization of appropriations
    (1) In general
       In addition to funds available under section 104(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151b(c)) for such purpose or under any other provision of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.], there are authorized to be appropriated to the President, from amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 7671 of this title, such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2013 to carry out section 104A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by subsection (a) [22 U.S.C. 2151b–2].
    (2) Availability of funds
       Amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) are authorized to remain available until expended.
    (3) Allocation of funds
       Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by paragraph (1) for the fiscal years 2009 through 2013, such sums as may be necessary are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 104A(d)(4) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as added by subsection (a)) [22 U.S.C. 2151b–2(d)(4)], relating to the procurement and distribution of HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals.
  (c) Food and nutritional support
    (1) In general
       As indicated in the report produced by the Institute of Medicine, entitled ””PEPFAR Implementation: Progress and Promise““, inadequate caloric intake has been clearly identified as a principal reason for failure of clinical response to antiretroviral therapy. In recognition of the impact of malnutrition as a clinical health issue for many persons living with HIV/AIDS that is often associated with health and economic impacts on these individuals and their families, the Global AIDS Coordinator and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall–
      (A) follow World Health Organization guidelines for HIV/AIDS food and nutrition services;
      (B) integrate nutrition programs with HIV/AIDS activities through effective linkages among the health, agricultural, and livelihood sectors and establish additional services in circumstances in which referrals are inadequate or impossible;
      (C) provide, as a component of care and treatment programs for persons with HIV/AIDS, food and nutritional support to individuals infected with, and affected by, HIV/AIDS who meet established criteria for nutritional support (including clinically malnourished children and adults, and pregnant and lactating women in programs in need of supplemental support), including–
        (i) anthropometric and dietary assessment;
        (ii) counseling; and
        (iii) therapeutic and supplementary feeding;
      (D) provide food and nutritional support for children affected by HIV/AIDS and to communities and households caring for children affected by HIV/AIDS; and
      (E) in communities where HIV/AIDS and food insecurity are highly prevalent, support programs to address these often intersecting health problems through community-based assistance programs, with an emphasis on sustainable approaches.
    (2) Authorization of appropriations
       Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 7671 of this title, there are authorized to be appropriated to the President such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2013 to carry out this subsection.
  (d) Eligibility for assistance
     An organization, including a faith-based organization, that is otherwise eligible to receive assistance under section 104A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2151b–2], under this chapter, or under any amendment made by this chapter or by the Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde United States Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008, for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, or care–
    (1) shall not be required, as a condition of receiving such assistance–
      (A) to endorse or utilize a multisectoral or comprehensive approach to combating HIV/AIDS; or
      (B) to endorse, utilize, make a referral to, become integrated with, or otherwise participate in any program or activity to which the organization has a religious or moral objection; and
    (2) shall not be discriminated against in the solicitation or issuance of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under such provisions of law for refusing to meet any requirement described in paragraph (1).
  (e) Limitation
     No funds made available to carry out this chapter, or any amendment made by this chapter, may be used to promote or advocate the legalization or practice of prostitution or sex trafficking. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to preclude the provision to individuals of palliative care, treatment, or post-exposure pharmaceutical prophylaxis, and necessary pharmaceuticals and commodities, including test kits, condoms, and, when proven effective, microbicides.
  (f) Limitation
     No funds made available to carry out this chapter, or any amendment made by this chapter, may be used to provide assistance to any group or organization that does not have a policy explicitly opposing prostitution and sex trafficking, except that this subsection shall not apply to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the World Health Organization, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative or to any United Nations agency.
  (g) Sense of Congress relating to food assistance for individuals living with HIV/AIDS
    (1) Findings
       Congress finds the following:
      (A) The United States provides more than 60 percent of all food assistance worldwide.
      (B) According to the United Nations World Food Program and other United Nations agencies, food insecurity of individuals infected or living with HIV/AIDS is a major problem in countries with large populations of such individuals, particularly in African countries.
      (C) Although the United States is willing to provide food assistance to these countries in need, a few of the countries object to part or all of the assistance because of fears of benign genetic modifications to the foods.
      (D) Healthy and nutritious foods for individuals infected or living with HIV/AIDS are an important complement to HIV/AIDS medicines for such individuals.
      (E) Individuals infected with HIV have higher nutritional requirements than individuals who are not infected with HIV, particularly with respect to the need for protein. Also, there is evidence to suggest that the full benefit of therapy to treat HIV/AIDS may not be achieved in individuals who are malnourished, particularly in pregnant and lactating women.
    (2) Sense of Congress
       It is therefore the sense of Congress that United States food assistance should be accepted by countries with large populations of individuals infected or living with HIV/AIDS, particularly African countries, in order to help feed such individuals.
