  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the executive branch a corporation to be known as the ””Millennium Challenge Corporation““ that shall be responsible for carrying out this chapter. The Corporation shall be a government corporation, as defined in section 103 of title 5.
  (b) Chief Executive Officer
    (1) In general
       There shall be in the Corporation a Chief Executive Officer who shall be responsible for the management of the Corporation.
    (2) Appointment
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
      (B) Interim CEO
         The members of the Board of Directors described in subsection (c)(3)(A) may designate by unanimous consent in writing an individual who is an officer within any Federal department or agency (and who has been appointed to such position by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate) to carry out the duties described in this subsection until the Chief Executive Officer is appointed pursuant to subparagraph (A).
    (3) Relationship to Board
       The Chief Executive Officer shall report to and be under the direct authority of the Board.
    (4) Compensation and rank
      (A) In general
         The Chief Executive Officer shall be compensated at the rate provided for level II of the Executive Schedule under section 5313 of title 5 and shall have the equivalent rank of Deputy Secretary.
      (B) Omitted
    (5) Authorities and duties
       The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the management of the Corporation and shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the Corporation.
    (6) Authority to appoint officers
       In consultation and with approval of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint all officers of the Corporation.
  (c) Board of Directors
    (1) Establishment
       There shall be in the Corporation a Board of Directors.
    (2) Duties
       The Board shall perform the functions specified to be carried out by the Board in this chapter and may prescribe, amend, and repeal bylaws, rules, regulations, and procedures governing the manner in which the business of the Corporation may be conducted and in which the powers granted to it by law may be exercised.
    (3) Membership
       The Board shall consist of–
      (A) the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and the United States Trade Representative; and
      (B) four other individuals with relevant international experience who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of which–
        (i) one individual should be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the majority leader of the House of Representatives;
        (ii) one individual should be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the minority leader of the House of Representatives;
        (iii) one individual should be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the majority leader of the Senate; and
        (iv) one individual should be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the minority leader of the Senate.
    (4) Terms
      (A) Officers of the Federal Government
         Each member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) shall serve for a term that is concurrent with the term of service of the individual“s position as an officer within the other Federal department or agency.
      (B) Other members
         Each member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B) shall be appointed for a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for a term of an additional 2 years.
      (C) Vacancies
         A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (5) Chairperson
       There shall be a Chairperson of the Board. The Secretary of State shall serve as the Chairperson.
    (6) Quorum
       A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, which, except with respect to a meeting of the Board during the 135-day period beginning on January 23, 2004, shall include at least one member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B).
    (7) Meetings
       The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson.
    (8) Compensation
      (A) Officers of the Federal Government
        (i) In general
           A member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of the member“s service on the Board.
        (ii) Travel expenses
           Each such member of the Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.
      (B) Other members
        (i) In general
           Except as provided in clause (ii), a member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B)–
          (I) shall be paid compensation out of funds made available for the purposes of this chapter at the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under section 5332 of title 5 for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board; and
          (II) while away from the member“s home or regular place of business on necessary travel in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board, shall be paid per diem, travel, and transportation expenses in the same manner as is provided under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.
        (ii) Limitation
           A member of the Board may not be paid compensation under clause (i)(II) for more than 90 days in any calendar year.
