  (a) Powers
     The Corporation–
    (1) shall have perpetual succession unless dissolved by a law enacted after January 23, 2004;
    (2) may adopt, alter, and use a seal, which shall be judicially noticed;
    (3) may make and perform such contracts, grants, and other agreements with any person or government however designated and wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Corporation;
    (4) may determine and prescribe the manner in which its obligations shall be incurred and its expenses allowed and paid, including expenses for representation;
    (5) may lease, purchase, or otherwise acquire, improve, and use such real property wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Corporation;
    (6) may accept cash gifts or donations of services or of property (real, personal, or mixed), tangible or intangible, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter;
    (7) may use the United States mails in the same manner and on the same conditions as the executive departments;
    (8) may contract with individuals for personal services, who shall not be considered Federal employees for any provision of law administered by the Office of Personnel Management;
    (9) may hire or obtain passenger motor vehicles; and
    (10) shall have such other powers as may be necessary and incident to carrying out this chapter.
  (b) Principal office
     The Corporation shall maintain its principal office in the metropolitan area of Washington, District of Columbia.
  (c) Positions with foreign governments
     When approved by the Chief Executive Officer, for purposes of implementing a Compact, employees of the Corporation (including individuals detailed to the Corporation) may accept and hold offices or positions to which no compensation is attached with governments or governmental agencies of foreign countries or with international organizations.
  (d) Other authorities
     Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, the administrative authorities contained in the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a et seq.) and the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) shall apply to the implementation of this chapter to the same extent and in the same manner as such authorities apply to the implementation of those Acts.
  (e) Applicability of Government Corporation Control Act
    (1) In general
       The Corporation shall be subject to chapter 91 of subtitle VI of title 31, except that the Corporation shall not be authorized to issue obligations or offer obligations to the public.
    (2) Omitted
  (f) Inspector General
    (1) In general
       The Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development shall serve as Inspector General of the Corporation, and, in acting in such capacity, may conduct reviews, investigations, and inspections of all aspects of the operations and activities of the Corporation.
    (2) Authority of the Board
       In carrying out the responsibilities under this subsection, the Inspector General shall report to and be under the general supervision of the Board.
    (3) Reimbursement and authorization of services
      (A) Reimbursement
         The Corporation shall reimburse the United States Agency for International Development for all expenses incurred by the Inspector General in connection with the Inspector General“s responsibilities under this subsection.
      (B) Authorization for services
         Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under section 7718(a) of this title for a fiscal year, up to $5,000,000 is authorized to be made available to the Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development to conduct reviews, investigations, and inspections of operations and activities of the Corporation.
  (g) Special assistance
    (1) In general
       The Chief Executive Officer is authorized to contract with any nongovernmental organization (including a university, independent foundation, or other organization) in the United States or in a candidate country, and, where appropriate, directly with a governmental agency of any such country, that is undertaking research aimed at improving data related to eligibility criteria under this chapter with respect to the country.
    (2) Funding
       Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under section 7718(a) of this title for a fiscal year, up to $5,000,000 is authorized to be made available to carry out paragraph (1).
