   In this chapter:
  (1) The term ””Additional Protocol““ means a protocol additional to a safeguards agreement with the IAEA, as negotiated between a country and the IAEA based on a Model Additional Protocol as set forth in IAEA information circular (INFCIRC) 540.
  (2) The term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives.
  (3) The term ””dual-use material, equipment, or technology““ means material, equipment, or technology that may be used in nuclear or nonnuclear applications.
  (4) The term ””IAEA safeguards““ has the meaning given the term in section 6305(3) of this title.
  (5) The term ””Indian person““ means–
    (A) a natural person that is a citizen of India or is subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of India;
    (B) a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, that is organized under the laws of India or has its principal place of business in India; and
    (C) any Indian governmental entity, including any governmental entity operating as a business enterprise.
  (6) The terms ””Missile Technology Control Regime““, ””MTCR““, and ””MTCR adherent““ have the meanings given the terms in section 2797c of this title.
  (7) The term ””nuclear materials and equipment““ means source material, special nuclear material, production and utilization facilities and any components thereof, and any other items or materials that are determined to have significance for nuclear explosive purposes pursuant to subsection \1\N 2139(b) of title 42.
  (8) The terms ””Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty““ and ””NPT““ mean the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and Moscow July 1, 1968, and entered into force March 5, 1970 (21 UST 483).
  (9) The terms ””Nuclear Suppliers Group““ and ””NSG““ refer to a group, which met initially in 1975 and has met at least annually since 1992, of Participating Governments that have promulgated and agreed to adhere to Guidelines for Nuclear Transfers (currently IAEA INFCIRC/254/Rev.8/Part 1) and Guidelines for Transfers of Nuclear-Related Dual-Use Equipment, Materials, Software, and Related Technology (currently IAEA INFCIRC/254/Rev.7/Part 2).
  (10) The terms ””nuclear weapon““ and ””nuclear explosive device““ mean any device designed to produce an instantaneous release of an amount of nuclear energy from special nuclear material that is greater than the amount of energy that would be released from the detonation of one pound of trinitrotoluene (TNT).
  (11) The term ””process““ includes the term ””reprocess““.
  (12) The terms ””reprocessing““ and ””reprocess““ refer to the separation of irradiated nuclear materials and fission products from spent nuclear fuel.
  (13) The term ””sensitive nuclear technology““ means any information, including information incorporated in a production or utilization facility or important component part thereof, that is not available to the public and which is important to the design, construction, fabrication, operation, or maintenance of a uranium enrichment or nuclear fuel reprocessing facility or a facility for the production of heavy water.
  (14) The term ””source material““ has the meaning given the term in section 2014(z) of title 42.
  (15) The term ””special nuclear material““ has the meaning given the term in section 2014(aa) of title 42.
  (16) The term ””unsafeguarded nuclear fuel-cycle activity““ means research on, or development, design, manufacture, construction, operation, or maintenance of–
    (A) any existing or future reactor, critical facility, conversion plant, fabrication plant, reprocessing plant, plant for the separation of isotopes of source or special fissionable material, or separate storage installation with respect to which there is no obligation to accept IAEA safeguards at the relevant reactor, facility, plant, or installation that contains source or special fissionable material; or
    (B) any existing or future heavy water production plant with respect to which there is no obligation to accept IAEA safeguards on any nuclear material produced by or used in connection with any heavy water produced therefrom.
