  (a) International military education and training
    (1) In general
       There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014 for assistance under chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.; relating to international military education and training) for Pakistan, including expanded international military education and training (commonly known as ””E–IMET““).
    (2) Use of funds
       It is the sense of Congress that a substantial amount of funds made available to carry out this subsection for a fiscal year should be used to pay for courses of study and training in counterinsurgency and civil-military relations.
  (b) Foreign Military Financing program
    (1) In general
       There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014 for grant assistance under section 2763 of this title (relating to the Foreign Military Financing program) for the purchase of defense articles, defense services, and military education and training for Pakistan.
    (2) Use of funds
      (A) In general
         A significant portion of the amount made available to carry out this subsection for a fiscal year shall be for the purchase of defense articles, defense services, and military education and training for activities relating to counterinsurgency and counterterrorism operations in Pakistan.
      (B) Sense of Congress
         It is the sense of Congress that a significant majority of funds made available to carry out this subsection for a fiscal year should be used for the purpose described in subparagraph (A).
    (3) Additional authority
       Except as provided in sections 2753 and 2799aa–1 of this title, the second section 620J of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as added by Public Law 110–161) [22 U.S.C. 2378d], and any provision of an Act making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs that restricts assistance to the government of any country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by military coup or decree, and except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, amounts authorized to be made available to carry out paragraph (2) for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 are authorized to be made available notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (4) Definitions
       In this section, the terms ””defense articles““, ””defense services““, and ””military education and training““ have the meaning given such terms in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403).
  (c) Sense of Congress
     It is the sense of Congress that the United States should facilitate Pakistan“s establishment of a program to provide reconstruction assistance, including through Pakistan“s military as appropriate, in areas damaged by combat operations.
  (d) Exchange program between military and civilian personnel of Pakistan and certain other countries
    (1) In general
       The Secretary of State is authorized to establish an exchange program between–
      (A) military and civilian personnel of Pakistan; and
      (B)        (i) military and civilian personnel of countries determined by the Secretary of State to be in the process of consolidating and strengthening a democratic form of government; or
        (ii) military and civilian personnel of North Atlantic Treaty Organization member countries,
       in order to foster greater mutual respect for and understanding of the principle of civilian rule of the military.
    (2) Elements of program
       The program authorized under paragraph (1) may include conferences, seminars, exchanges, and other events, distribution of publications and reimbursements of expenses of foreign military personnel participating in the program, including transportation, translation and administrative expenses.
    (3) Role of nongovernmental organizations
       Amounts authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section for a fiscal year are authorized to be made available for nongovernmental organizations to facilitate the implementation of the program authorized under paragraph (1).
    (4) Authorization of appropriations
       There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014 to carry out the program established by this subsection.
