   In this subchapter:
  (1) Allow
     The term ””allow““, with respect to the diversion through a country of goods, services, or technologies, means the government of the country knows or has reason to know that the territory of the country is being used for such diversion.
  (2) Appropriate congressional committees
     The term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means–
    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
  (3) Commerce Control List
     The term ””Commerce Control List““ means the list maintained pursuant to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
  (4) Divert; diversion
     The terms ””divert““ and ””diversion““ refer to the transfer or release, directly or indirectly, of a good, service, or technology to an end-user or an intermediary that is not an authorized recipient of the good, service, or technology.
  (5) End-user
     The term ””end-user““, with respect to a good, service, or technology, means the person that receives and ultimately uses the good, service, or technology.
  (6) Export Administration Regulations
     The term ””Export Administration Regulations““ means subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
  (7) Government
     The term ””government““ includes any agency or instrumentality of a government.
  (8) Intermediary
     The term ””intermediary““ means a person that receives a good, service, or technology while the good, service, or technology is in transit to the end-user of the good, service, or technology.
  (9) International Traffic in Arms Regulations
     The term ””International Traffic in Arms Regulations““ means subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
  (10) Iran
     The term ””Iran““ includes the Government of Iran and any agency or instrumentality of Iran.
  (11) Iranian end-user
     The term ””Iranian end-user““ means an end-user that is the Government of Iran or a person in, or an agency or instrumentality of, Iran.
  (12) Iranian intermediary
     The term ””Iranian intermediary““ means an intermediary that is the Government of Iran or a person in, or an agency or instrumentality of, Iran.
  (13) State sponsor of terrorism
     The term ””state sponsor of terrorism““ means any country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism pursuant to–
    (A) section 2405(j)(1)(A) of the Appendix to title 50 (or any successor thereto);
    (B) section 2780(d) of this title; or
    (C) section 2371(a) of this title.
  (14) United States Munitions List
     The term ””United States Munitions List““ means the list maintained pursuant to part 121 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
