  (a) T4General RuleK.–No person may use, in connection with, or as a part of, any advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product, whether alone or with other words, letters, symbols, or emblems–
    (1) the words ””Department of the Treasury““, or the name of any service, bureau, office, or other subdivision of the Department of the Treasury,
    (2) the titles ””Secretary of the Treasury““ or ””Treasurer of the United States““ or the title of any other officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury,
    (3) the abbreviations or initials of any entity referred to in paragraph (1),
    (4) the words ””United States Savings Bond““ or the name of any other obligation issued by the Department of the Treasury,
    (5) any symbol or emblem of an entity referred to in paragraph (1) (including the design of any envelope or stationary used by such an entity), and
    (6) any colorable imitation of any such words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, or emblems,
       in a manner which could reasonably be interpreted or construed as conveying the false impression that such advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product is in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, or authorized by, or associated with, the Department of the Treasury or any entity referred to in paragraph (1) or any officer or employee thereof.
  (b) T4Treatment of DisclaimersK.–Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of subsection (a) shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
  (c) T4Civil Penalty.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary of the Treasury may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of subsection (a).
    (2) T4Amount of penaltyK.–The amount of the civil penalty imposed by paragraph (1) shall not exceed $5,000 for each use of any material in violation of subsection (a). If such use is in a broadcast or telecast, the preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting ””$25,000““ for ””$5,000““.
    (3) T4Time limitations.–
      (A) T4AssessmentsK.–The Secretary of the Treasury may assess any civil penalty under paragraph (1) at any time before the end of the 3-year period beginning on the date of the violation with respect to which such penalty is imposed.
      (B) T4Civil actionK.–The Secretary of the Treasury may commence a civil action to recover any penalty imposed under this subsection at any time before the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date on which such penalty was assessed.
    (4) T4Coordination with subsectionK (d).–No penalty may be assessed under this subsection with respect to any violation after a criminal proceeding with respect to such violation has been commenced under subsection (d).
  (d) T4Criminal Penalty.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–If any person knowingly violates subsection (a), such person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $10,000 for each such use or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both. If such use is in a broadcast or telecast, the preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting ””$50,000““ for ””$10,000““.
    (2) T4Time limitationsK.–No person may be prosecuted, tried, or punished under paragraph (1) for any violation of subsection (a) unless the indictment is found or the information instituted during the 3-year period beginning on the date of the violation.
    (3) T4Coordination with subsectionK (c).–No criminal proceeding may be commenced under this subsection with respect to any violation if a civil penalty has previously been assessed under subsection (c) with respect to such violation.
