  (a)    (1) A check is deemed to be issued for sending to a foreign country and subject to this section and section 3329 of this title if the check is–
      (A) drawn on public money;
      (B) for benefits under laws carried out by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
      (C) to be sent to a person in the United States or a territory or possession of the United States, and the person is legally responsible for the care of an individual in a foreign country.
    (2) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the Secretary of the Treasury of each check described under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (3) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may exempt a check from paragraph (1) of this subsection if the application of paragraph (1) would reduce, discontinue, or deny benefits for the care of a dependent of an individual in a foreign country.
  (b) When the amount of checks (representing payments to an individual under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs) transferred under section 3329(b)(4) of this title equals $1,000, the amounts of additional checks (except checks under contracts of insurance) payable to the individual under those laws shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. An amount transferred under section 3329(b)(4) or deposited as miscellaneous receipts is deemed to be payment for all purposes to the individual entitled to payment.
  (c) If the payee of a check for pension, compensation, or emergency officers“ retirement pay under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs dies while the amount of the check is in the special deposit account, the amount is payable (subject to section 3329 of this title and this section) as follows:
    (1) after the death of the veteran, to the surviving spouse, or, if there is no surviving spouse, to children of the veteran under 18 years of age at the time of the veteran“s death.
    (2) after the death of the surviving spouse, to children of the spouse under 18 years of age at the time of the spouse“s death.
    (3) after the death of an apportionee of a part of the veteran“s pension, compensation, or emergency officers“ retirement pay but before all of the apportioned amount is paid to the veteran, the apportioned amount not paid.
    (4) in any other case, only to the extent necessary to reimburse a person for burial expenses.
  (d)    (1) A payment may be made under subsection (c) of this section only if a claim for payment is–
      (A) filed with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by the end of the first year after the date of the death of the individual entitled to payment; and
      (B) completed by submitting the necessary evidence by the 6th month after the date the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests the evidence.
    (2) Payment shall include only amounts due at the time of death under ratings or decisions existing at the time of the death.
