  (a)    (1) Unless the Comptroller General decides the public interest requires that an account be made more frequently, each disbursing official shall make a quarterly account. An official or agent of the United States Government receiving public money not authorized to be kept as pay of the official or agent shall make a monthly account of the money.
    (2) An official or agent of the Government receiving public money shall make an account of public money received by the official or agent according to the appropriation from which the money was advanced.
  (b)    (1) A monthly account shall be submitted to the appropriate official in the District of Columbia by the 10th day after the end of the month covered by the account. The official shall submit the account to the Comptroller General by the 20th day after receiving the account.
    (2) An account (except a monthly account) shall be submitted to the appropriate official in the District of Columbia by the 20th day after the end of the period covered by the account. The official shall submit the account to the Comptroller General by the 60th day after receiving the account.
    (3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, an account of the armed forces shall be submitted to the Comptroller General by the 60th day after the account is received. However, during a war or national emergency and for 18 months after the war or emergency ends, an account shall be submitted to the Comptroller General by the 90th day after the account is received.
    (4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, an account of a disbursing official of the Department of Justice shall be submitted to the Comptroller General by the 80th day after the account is received.
  (c) An official shall give evidence of compliance with subsection (b) of this section if an account is not received within a reasonable time after the time required by subsection (b).
  (d) The head of an agency may require other returns or reports about the agency that the public interest requires.
  (e)    (1) The Comptroller General shall disapprove a requisition for an advance of money if an account from which the advance is to be made is not submitted to the Comptroller General within the time required by subsection (b) of this section. The Comptroller General may disapprove the request for another reason related to the condition of an account of the official for whom the advance is requested. However, the Secretary of the Treasury may overrule the decision of the Comptroller General on the sufficiency of the other reasons.
    (2) The Secretary may extend the time requirements of subsection (b)(1) and (2) of this section for submitting an account to the proper official in the District of Columbia or waive a condition of delinquency only when there is, or is likely to be, a manifest physical difficulty in complying with those requirements. If an account is not submitted to the Comptroller General on time under subsection (b), an order of the President or, if the President is ill or not in the District of Columbia, the Secretary is required to authorize an advance.
