  (a)    (1) A determination by a reviewing official under section 3803 of this title shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review.
    (2) Unless a petition is filed under this section, a determination under section 3803 of this title that a person is liable under section 3802 of this title shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review.
  (b)    (1)      (A) Any person who has been determined to be liable under section 3802 of this title pursuant to section 3803 of this title may obtain review of such determination in–
        (i) the United States district court for the district in which such person resides or transacts business;
        (ii) the United States district court for the district in which the claim or statement upon which the determination of liability is based was made, presented, or submitted; or
        (iii) the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
      (B) Such review may be obtained by filing in any such court a written petition that such determination be modified or set aside. Such petition shall be filed–
        (i) only after such person has exhausted all administrative remedies under this chapter; and
        (ii) within 60 days after the date on which the authority head sends such person a copy of the decision of such authority head under section 3803(i)(2) of this title.
    (2) The clerk of the court shall transmit a copy of a petition filed under paragraph (1) of this subsection to the authority and to the Attorney General. Upon receipt of the copy of such petition, the authority shall transmit to the Attorney General the record in the proceeding resulting in the determination of liability under section 3802 of this title. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction to review the decision, findings, and determinations in issue and to affirm, modify, remand for further consideration, or set aside, in whole or in part, the decision, findings, and determinations of the authority, and to enforce such decision, findings, and determinations to the extent that such decision, findings, and determinations are affirmed or modified.
  (c) The decisions, findings, and determinations of the authority with respect to questions of fact shall be final and conclusive, and shall not be set aside unless such decisions, findings, and determinations are found by the court to be unsupported by substantial evidence. In concluding whether the decisions, findings, and determinations of an authority are unsupported by substantial evidence, the court shall review the whole record or those parts of it cited by a party, and due account shall be taken of the rule of prejudicial error.
  (d) Any district court reviewing under this section the decision, findings, and determinations of an authority shall not consider any objection that was not raised in the hearing conducted pursuant to section 3803(f) of this title unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection. If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the court that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the court shall remand the matter to the authority for consideration of such additional evidence.
  (e) Upon a final determination by the district court that a person is liable under section 3802 of this title, the court shall enter a final judgment for the appropriate amount in favor of the United States.
