   In this chapter–
  (1) ””assistance““ means the transfer of anything of value for a public purpose of support or stimulation that is–
    (A) authorized by a law of the United States;
    (B) provided by the United States Government through grant or contractual arrangements (including technical assistance programs providing assistance by loan, loan guarantee, or insurance); and
    (C) not an annual payment by the United States Government to the District of Columbia government under section 502 of the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act (Public Law 93–198, 87 Stat. 813, D.C. Code, § 47–3406).
  (2) ””comprehensive planning““ includes, to the extent directly related to area needs or needs of a unit of general local government–
    (A) preparation, as a guide for governmental policies and action, of general plans on–
      (i) the pattern and intensity of land use;
      (ii) providing public facilities (including transportation facilities) and other governmental services; and
      (iii) the effective development and use of human and natural resources;
    (B) long-range physical and fiscal plans for an action referred to in subparagraph (A);
    (C) a program for capital improvements and other major expenditures based on their relative urgency, and definitive financing plans for the expenditures in the earlier years of the program;
    (D) coordination of related plans and activities of States and local governments and agencies concerned; and
    (E) preparation of regulatory and administrative measures to support the items referred to in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D).
  (3) ””executive agency““ does not include a mixed-ownership Government corporation.
  (4)    (A) ””grant““ (except as provided in subparagraph (C)) means money, or property provided instead of money, that is paid or provided by the United States Government under a fixed annual or total authorization, to a State, to a local government, or to a beneficiary under a plan or program administered by a State or a local government that is subject to approval by an executive agency, if the authorization–
      (i) requires the State or local government to expend non-Government money as a condition of receiving money or property from the United States Government; or
      (ii) specifies directly, or establishes by means of a formula, the amount that may be provided to the State or local government, or the amount to be allotted for use in each State by the State, local government, and beneficiaries.
    (B) ””grant““ (except as provided in subparagraph (C)) also means money, or property provided instead of money, that is paid or provided by the United States Government to a private, nonprofit community organization eligible to receive amounts under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901 et seq.).
    (C) ””grant““ does not include–
      (i) shared revenue;
      (ii) payment of taxes;
      (iii) payment instead of taxes;
      (iv) a loan or repayable advance;
      (v) surplus property or surplus agricultural commodities provided as surplus property;
      (vi) a payment under a research and development procurement contract or grant awarded directly and on similar terms to all qualifying organizations; or
      (vii) a payment to a State or local government as complete reimbursement for costs incurred in paying benefits or providing services to persons entitled to them under a law of the United States.
  (5) ””head of a State agency““ includes the designated delegate of the head of the agency.
  (6) ””local government““ means a unit of general local government, a school district, or other special district established under State law.
  (7) ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Treasury.
  (8) ””special-purpose unit of local government““ means a special district, public-purpose local government of a State except a school district.
  (9) ””State““ means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, a territory or possession of the United States, and an agency, instrumentality, or fiscal agent of a State but does not mean a local government of a State.
  (10) ””unit of general local government““ means a county, city, town, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State.
