  (a) Consistent with program purposes and with regulations of the Secretary, and in accordance with an agreement under subsection (b) entered into by the Secretary and a State–
    (1) the head of an executive agency (other than the Tennessee Valley Authority) carrying out a program shall schedule transfers of funds to the State under the program so as to minimize the time elapsing between transfer of funds from the United States Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants, or payments by other means by a State; and
    (2) the State shall minimize the time elapsing between transfer of funds from the United States Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants, or payments by other means for program purposes.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with each State to which transfers of funds are made, which establishes procedures and requirements for implementing this section.
    (2) An agreement under this subsection shall–
      (A) specify procedures chosen by the State for carrying out transfers of funds under the agreement;
      (B) describe the process by which the Federal Government shall review and approve the implementation of the procedures specified under subparagraph (A);
      (C) establish the methods to be used for calculating and documenting payments of interest pursuant to this section; and
      (D) specify those types of costs directly incurred by the State for interest calculations required under this section, and require the Secretary to consider those costs in computing payments under this section.
    (3) The Secretary shall issue regulations establishing procedures and requirements for implementing this section with respect to a State with which no agreement is entered into by the Secretary under paragraph (1). Such regulations shall apply to a State until such time as the Secretary enters into an agreement with the State under paragraph (1).
  (c)    (1) The Secretary shall issue regulations that shall require a State, when not inconsistent with program purposes, to pay interest to the United States on funds from the time funds are deposited by the United States to the State“s account until the time that funds are paid out by the State in order to redeem checks or warrants or make payments by other means for program purposes. Except as provided under paragraph (3)(B) (relating to the Unemployment Trust Fund), the interest payable under this subsection shall be calculated at a rate equal to the average of the bond equivalent rates of 13-week Treasury bills auctioned during the period for which interest is calculated, as determined by the Secretary.
    (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), amounts received by the United States as payment of interest under this subsection shall be deposited in the Treasury and credited as miscellaneous receipts.
    (3)      (A) Amounts paid by a State under paragraph (1) as interest on funds paid to a State from a trust fund for which the Secretary is the trustee shall be credited to such trust fund.
      (B) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, amounts of interest paid by a State, on funds drawn from its account in the Unemployment Trust Fund, shall be deposited into that account and shall consist of actual interest earnings by the State, less related banking costs incurred by the State, for the period for which interest is calculated.
  (d)    (1) If a State disburses its own funds for program purposes in accordance with Federal law, Federal regulation, or Federal-State agreement, the State shall be entitled to interest from the time the State“s funds are paid out to redeem checks or warrants, or make payments by other means, until the Federal funds are deposited to the State“s bank account. The Secretary shall pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such amounts as may be necessary for interest owed to a State under this subsection. Such interest shall be calculated, at a rate equal to the average of the bond equivalent rates of 13-week Treasury bills auctioned during the period for which interest is calculated, as determined by the Secretary.
    (2) If interest is paid under this subsection as a result of a State disbursing its own funds before receiving payment from a trust fund for which the Secretary of the Treasury is the trustee, such interest shall be charged against such trust fund.
  (e) The budget submitted by the President under section 1105 of this title for a fiscal year shall include a statement specifying, for the most recently completed fiscal year, amounts of interest accrued to the Federal Government under subsection (c) and amounts of interest paid to States under subsection (d).
  (f) If a State receives refunds of funds disbursed by the State under a Federal program, the State shall return those refunds to the Federal executive agency administering the program or apply those refunds to reduce the amount of funds owed by the Federal Government to the State under such program. Interest earned on such refunds shall be considered when setting overall interest obligations between the State and the Federal Government as required by this section.
  (g) If the Federal Government makes a payment to a recipient under a Federal program, and a portion of the payment is an amount which the Federal Government is paying to such recipient on behalf of a State, such amount shall be considered to be a transfer of funds between the Federal Government and the State for purposes of this section.
  (h) A State may not be required by a law or regulation of the United States to deposit funds received by it in a separate bank account. However, a State shall account for funds made available to the State as United States Government funds in the accounts of the State. The head of the State agency concerned shall make periodic authenticated reports to the head of the appropriate Federal executive agency on the status and the application of the funds, the liabilities and obligations on hand, and other information required by the head of the executive agency. Records related to the funds received by the State shall be made available to the head of the executive agency, the Inspector General of the executive agency, and the Comptroller General for necessary audits.
  (i) The Secretary shall prescribe methods for the payment of interest under this section between the Federal Government and the States, including provisions for offsetting amounts owed by the respective parties. Such methods of payment shall require payment of interest on an annual basis and shall provide for comparable treatment in manner, technique, and timing for both the States and the Federal Government.
  (j) Consistent with Federal program purposes and regulations of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the head of a Federal executive agency carrying out a program shall execute grant awards to States on a timely basis to assure the availability of funds to accomplish transfers in compliance with subsection (a) of this section.
