  (a) The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation standards for the safeguarding and use of obligations that are government securities described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 3(a)(42) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such regulations shall apply only to a depository institution that is not a government securities broker or a government securities dealer and that holds such obligations as fiduciary, custodian, or otherwise for the account of a customer and not for its own account. Such regulations shall provide for the adequate segregation of obligations so held, including obligations which are purchased or sold subject to resale or repurchase.
  (b) Violation of a regulation prescribed under subsection (a) shall constitute adequate basis for the issuance of an order under section 5239(a) or (b) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 93(a) or (b)), section 8(b) or 8(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 5(d)(2) or 5(d)(3) \1\N of the Home Owners“ Loan Act of 1933, section 407(e) or 407(f) \1\ of the National Housing Act, or section 206(e) or 206(f) of the Federal Credit Union Act. Such an order may be issued with respect to a depository institution by its appropriate regulatory agency and with respect to a federally insured credit union by the National Credit Union Administration.
  (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect in any way the powers of such agencies under any other provision of law.
  (d) The Secretary shall, prior to adopting regulations under this section, determine with respect to each appropriate regulatory agency and the National Credit Union Administration Board, whether its rules and standards adequately meet the purposes of regulations to be promulgated under this section, and if the Secretary so determines, shall exempt any depository institution subject to such rules or standards from the regulations promulgated under this section.
  (e) As used in this subsection–
    (1) ””depository institution““ has the meaning stated in clauses (i) through (vi) of section 19(b)(1)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act and also includes a foreign bank, an agency or branch of a foreign bank, and a commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank (as such terms are defined in the International Banking Act of 1978).
    (2) ””government securities broker““ has the meaning prescribed in section 3(a)(43) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
    (3) ””government securities dealer““ has the meaning prescribed in section 3(a)(44) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
    (4) ””appropriate regulatory agency““ has the meaning prescribed in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
