   For purposes of section 1161 of this title, the term ””continuation coverage““ means coverage under the plan which meets the following requirements:
  (1) Type of benefit coverage
     The coverage must consist of coverage which, as of the time the coverage is being provided, is identical to the coverage provided under the plan to similarly situated beneficiaries under the plan with respect to whom a qualifying event has not occurred. If coverage is modified under the plan for any group of similarly situated beneficiaries, such coverage shall also be modified in the same manner for all individuals who are qualified beneficiaries under the plan pursuant to this part in connection with such group.
  (2) Period of coverage
     The coverage must extend for at least the period beginning on the date of the qualifying event and ending not earlier than the earliest of the following:
    (A) Maximum required period
      (i) General rule for terminations and reduced hours
         In the case of a qualifying event described in section 1163(2) of this title, except as provided in clause (ii), the date which is 18 months after the date of the qualifying event.
      (ii) Special rule for multiple qualifying events
         If a qualifying event (other than a qualifying event described in section 1163(6) of this title) occurs during the 18 months after the date of a qualifying event described in section 1163(2) of this title, the date which is 36 months after the date of the qualifying event described in section 1163(2) of this title.
      (iii) Special rule for certain bankruptcy proceedings
         In the case of a qualifying event described in section 1163(6) of this title (relating to bankruptcy proceedings), the date of the death of the covered employee or qualified beneficiary (described in section 1167(3)(C)(iii) of this title), or in the case of the surviving spouse or dependent children of the covered employee, 36 months after the date of the death of the covered employee.
      (iv) General rule for other qualifying events
         In the case of a qualifying event not described in section 1163(2) or 1163(6) of this title, the date which is 36 months after the date of the qualifying event.
      (v) Special rule for PBGC recipients
         In the case of a qualifying event described in section 1163(2) of this title with respect to a covered employee who (as of such qualifying event) has a nonforfeitable right to a benefit any portion of which is to be paid by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation under subchapter III, notwithstanding clause (i) or (ii), the date of the death of the covered employee, or in the case of the surviving spouse or dependent children of the covered employee, 24 months after the date of the death of the covered employee. The preceding sentence shall not require any period of coverage to extend beyond December 31, 2010.
      (vi) Special rule for TAA-eligible individuals
         In the case of a qualifying event described in section 1163(2) of this title with respect to a covered employee who is (as of the date that the period of coverage would, but for this clause or clause (vii), otherwise terminate under clause (i) or (ii)) a TAA-eligible individual (as defined in section 1165(b)(4)(B) of this title), the period of coverage shall not terminate by reason of clause (i) or (ii), as the case may be, before the later of the date specified in such clause or the date on which such individual ceases to be such a TAA-eligible individual. The preceding sentence shall not require any period of coverage to extend beyond December 31, 2010.
      (vii) Medicare entitlement followed by qualifying event
         In the case of a qualifying event described in section 1163(2) of this title that occurs less than 18 months after the date the covered employee became entitled to benefits under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.], the period of coverage for qualified beneficiaries other than the covered employee shall not terminate under this subparagraph before the close of the 36-month period beginning on the date the covered employee became so entitled.
      (viii) Special rule for disability
         In the case of a qualified beneficiary who is determined, under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq., 1381 et seq.], to have been disabled at any time during the first 60 days of continuation coverage under this part, any reference in clause (i) or (ii) to 18 months is deemed a reference to 29 months (with respect to all qualified beneficiaries), but only if the qualified beneficiary has provided notice of such determination under section 1166(3) \1\N of this title before the end of such 18 months.
    (B) End of plan
       The date on which the employer ceases to provide any group health plan to any employee.
    (C) Failure to pay premium
       The date on which coverage ceases under the plan by reason of a failure to make timely payment of any premium required under the plan with respect to the qualified beneficiary. The payment of any premium (other than any payment referred to in the last sentence of paragraph (3)) shall be considered to be timely if made within 30 days after the date due or within such longer period as applies to or under the plan.
    (D) Group health plan coverage or medicare entitlement
       The date on which the qualified beneficiary first becomes, after the date of the election–
      (i) covered under any other group health plan (as an employee or otherwise) which does not contain any exclusion or limitation with respect to any preexisting condition of such beneficiary (other than such an exclusion or limitation which does not apply to (or is satisfied by) such beneficiary by reason of chapter 100 of title 26, part 7 of this subtitle, or title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 300gg et seq.]), or
      (ii) in the case of a qualified beneficiary other than a qualified beneficiary described in section 1167(3)(C) of this title, entitled to benefits under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.].
    (E) Termination of extended coverage for disability
       In the case of a qualified beneficiary who is disabled at any time during the first 60 days of continuation coverage under this part, the month that begins more than 30 days after the date of the final determination under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq., 1381 et seq.] that the qualified beneficiary is no longer disabled.
  (3) Premium requirements
     The plan may require payment of a premium for any period of continuation coverage, except that such premium–
    (A) shall not exceed 102 percent of the applicable premium for such period, and
    (B) may, at the election of the payor, be made in monthly installments.
     In no event may the plan require the payment of any premium before the day which is 45 days after the day on which the qualified beneficiary made the initial election for continuation coverage. In the case of an individual described in the last sentence of paragraph (2)(A), any reference in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph to ””102 percent““ is deemed a reference to ””150 percent““ for any month after the 18th month of continuation coverage described in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (2)(A).
  (4) No requirement of insurability
     The coverage may not be conditioned upon, or discriminate on the basis of lack of, evidence of insurability.
  (5) Conversion option
     In the case of a qualified beneficiary whose period of continuation coverage expires under paragraph (2)(A), the plan must, during the 180-day period ending on such expiration date, provide to the qualified beneficiary the option of enrollment under a conversion health plan otherwise generally available under the plan.
