  (a) Group health plan coverage pursuant to medical child support orders
    (1) In general
       Each group health plan shall provide benefits in accordance with the applicable requirements of any qualified medical child support order.
    (2) Definitions
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) Qualified medical child support order
         The term ””qualified medical child support order““ means a medical child support order–
        (i) which creates or recognizes the existence of an alternate recipient“s right to, or assigns to an alternate recipient the right to, receive benefits for which a participant or beneficiary is eligible under a group health plan, and
        (ii) with respect to which the requirements of paragraphs (3) and (4) are met.
      (B) Medical child support order
         The term ””medical child support order““ means any judgment, decree, or order (including approval of a settlement agreement) issued by a court of competent jurisdiction which–
        (i) provides for child support with respect to a child of a participant under a group health plan or provides for health benefit coverage to such a child, is made pursuant to a State domestic relations law (including a community property law), and relates to benefits under such plan, or
        (ii) enforces a law relating to medical child support described in section 1908 of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396g–1] (as added by section 13822 \1\N of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993) with respect to a group health plan.
      (C) Alternate recipient
         The term ””alternate recipient““ means any child of a participant who is recognized under a medical child support order as having a right to enrollment under a group health plan with respect to such participant.
    (3) Information to be included in qualified order
       A medical child support order meets the requirements of this paragraph only if such order clearly specifies–
      (A) the name and the last known mailing address (if any) of the participant and the name and mailing address of each alternate recipient covered by the order,
      (B) a reasonable description of the type of coverage to be provided by the plan to each such alternate recipient, or the manner in which such type of coverage is to be determined,
      (C) the period to which such order applies, and
      (D) each plan to which such order applies.
    (4) Restriction on new types or forms of benefits
       A medical child support order meets the requirements of this paragraph only if such order does not require a plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option, not otherwise provided under the plan, except to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of a law relating to medical child support described in section 1908 of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396g–1] (as added by section 13822 \1\ of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993).
    (5) Procedural requirements
      (A) Timely notifications and determinations
         In the case of any medical child support order received by a group health plan–
        (i) the plan administrator shall promptly notify the participant and each alternate recipient of the receipt of such order and the plan“s procedures for determining whether medical child support orders are qualified medical child support orders, and
        (ii) within a reasonable period after receipt of such order, the plan administrator shall determine whether such order is a qualified medical child support order and notify the participant and each alternate recipient of such determination.
      (B) Establishment of procedures for determining qualified status of orders
         Each group health plan shall establish reasonable procedures to determine whether medical child support orders are qualified medical child support orders and to administer the provision of benefits under such qualified orders. Such procedures–
        (i) shall be in writing,
        (ii) shall provide for the notification of each person specified in a medical child support order as eligible to receive benefits under the plan (at the address included in the medical child support order) of such procedures promptly upon receipt by the plan of the medical child support order, and
        (iii) shall permit an alternate recipient to designate a representative for receipt of copies of notices that are sent to the alternate recipient with respect to a medical child support order.
    (6) Actions taken by fiduciaries
       If a plan fiduciary acts in accordance with part 4 of this subtitle in treating a medical child support order as being (or not being) a qualified medical child support order, then the plan“s obligation to the participant and each alternate recipient shall be discharged to the extent of any payment made pursuant to such act of the fiduciary.
    (7) Treatment of alternate recipients
      (A) Treatment as beneficiary generally
         A person who is an alternate recipient under a qualified medical child support order shall be considered a beneficiary under the plan for purposes of any provision of this chapter.
      (B) Treatment as participant for purposes of reporting and disclosure requirements
         A person who is an alternate recipient under any medical child support order shall be considered a participant under the plan for purposes of the reporting and disclosure requirements of part 1 of this subtitle.
    (8) Direct provision of benefits provided to alternate recipients
       Any payment for benefits made by a group health plan pursuant to a medical child support order in reimbursement for expenses paid by an alternate recipient or an alternate recipient“s custodial parent or legal guardian shall be made to the alternate recipient or the alternate recipient“s custodial parent or legal guardian.
  (b) Rights of States with respect to group health plans where participants or beneficiaries thereunder are eligible for medicaid benefits
    (1) Compliance by plans with assignment of rights
       A group health plan shall provide that payment for benefits with respect to a participant under the plan will be made in accordance with any assignment of rights made by or on behalf of such participant or a beneficiary of the participant as required by a State plan for medical assistance approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.] pursuant to section 1912(a)(1)(A) of such Act [42 U.S.C. 1396k(a)(1)(A)] (as in effect on August 10, 1993).
    (2) Enrollment and provision of benefits without regard to medicaid eligibility
       A group health plan shall provide that, in enrolling an individual as a participant or beneficiary or in determining or making any payments for benefits of an individual as a participant or beneficiary, the fact that the individual is eligible for or is provided medical assistance under a State plan for medical assistance approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.] will not be taken into account.
    (3) Acquisition by States of rights of third parties
       A group health plan shall provide that, to the extent that payment has been made under a State plan for medical assistance approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.] in any case in which a group health plan has a legal liability to make payment for items or services constituting such assistance, payment for benefits under the plan will be made in accordance with any State law which provides that the State has acquired the rights with respect to a participant to such payment for such items or services.
  (c) Group health plan coverage of dependent children in cases of adoption
    (1) Coverage effective upon placement for adoption
       In any case in which a group health plan provides coverage for dependent children of participants or beneficiaries, such plan shall provide benefits to dependent children placed with participants or beneficiaries for adoption under the same terms and conditions as apply in the case of dependent children who are natural children of participants or beneficiaries under the plan, irrespective of whether the adoption has become final.
    (2) Restrictions based on preexisting conditions at time of placement for adoption prohibited
       A group health plan may not restrict coverage under the plan of any dependent child adopted by a participant or beneficiary, or placed with a participant or beneficiary for adoption, solely on the basis of a preexisting condition of such child at the time that such child would otherwise become eligible for coverage under the plan, if the adoption or placement for adoption occurs while the participant or beneficiary is eligible for coverage under the plan.
    (3) Definitions
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) Child
         The term ””child““ means, in connection with any adoption, or placement for adoption, of the child, an individual who has not attained age 18 as of the date of such adoption or placement for adoption.
      (B) Placement for adoption
         The term ””placement““, or being ””placed““, for adoption, in connection with any placement for adoption of a child with any person, means the assumption and retention by such person of a legal obligation for total or partial support of such child in anticipation of adoption of such child. The child“s placement with such person terminates upon the termination of such legal obligation.
  (d) Continued coverage of costs of a pediatric vaccine under group health plans
     A group health plan may not reduce its coverage of the costs of pediatric vaccines (as defined under section 1928(h)(6) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396s(h)(6)] as amended by section 13830 \2\N of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993) below the coverage it provided as of May 1, 1993.
  (e) Regulations
     Any regulations prescribed under this section shall be prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
