  (a) In eligibility to enroll
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2), a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage in connection with a group health plan, may not establish rules for eligibility (including continued eligibility) of any individual to enroll under the terms of the plan based on any of the following health status-related factors in relation to the individual or a dependent of the individual:
      (A) Health status.
      (B) Medical condition (including both physical and mental illnesses).
      (C) Claims experience.
      (D) Receipt of health care.
      (E) Medical history.
      (F) Genetic information.
      (G) Evidence of insurability (including conditions arising out of acts of domestic violence).
      (H) Disability.
    (2) No application to benefits or exclusions
       To the extent consistent with section 1181 of this title, paragraph (1) shall not be construed–
      (A) to require a group health plan, or group health insurance coverage, to provide particular benefits other than those provided under the terms of such plan or coverage, or
      (B) to prevent such a plan or coverage from establishing limitations or restrictions on the amount, level, extent, or nature of the benefits or coverage for similarly situated individuals enrolled in the plan or coverage.
    (3) Construction
       For purposes of paragraph (1), rules for eligibility to enroll under a plan include rules defining any applicable waiting periods for such enrollment.
  (b) In premium contributions
    (1) In general
       A group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering health insurance coverage in connection with a group health plan, may not require any individual (as a condition of enrollment or continued enrollment under the plan) to pay a premium or contribution which is greater than such premium or contribution for a similarly situated individual enrolled in the plan on the basis of any health status-related factor in relation to the individual or to an individual enrolled under the plan as a dependent of the individual.
    (2) Construction
       Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed–
      (A) to restrict the amount that an employer may be charged for coverage under a group health plan; or
      (B) to prevent a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, from establishing premium discounts or rebates or modifying otherwise applicable copayments or deductibles in return for adherence to programs of health promotion and disease prevention.
