   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
  (1) The term ””academic credit““ means credit for education, training, or work experience applicable toward a secondary school diploma, a postsecondary degree, or an accredited certificate of completion, consistent with applicable State law and regulation and the requirements of an accredited educational agency or institution in a State.
  (2) The term ””administrative entity““ means the entity designated to administer a job training plan under section 1513(b)(1)(B) of this title.
  (3) The term ””area of substantial unemployment““ means any area of sufficient size and scope to sustain programs under parts A and C of subchapter II of this chapter and which has an average rate of unemployment of at least 6.5 percent for the most recent twelve months as determined by the Secretary. Determinations of areas of substantial unemployment shall be made once each fiscal year.
  (4) The term ””chief elected official““ includes–
    (A) in the case of a State, the Governor;
    (B) in the District of Columbia, the mayor; and
    (C) in the case of a service delivery area designated under section 1511(a)(4)(A)(iii) of this title, the governing body.
  (5) The term ””community-based organizations““ means private nonprofit organizations which are representative of communities or significant segments of communities and which provide job training services (for example, Opportunities Industrialization Centers, the National Urban League, SER-Jobs for Progress, United Way of America, Mainstream, the National Puerto Rican Forum, National Council of La Raza, 70,001, Jobs for Youth, the Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs, the Center for Employment Training, literacy organizations, agencies or organizations serving older individuals, organizations that provide service opportunities, youth corps programs, organizations operating career intern programs, neighborhood groups and organizations, community action agencies, community development corporations, vocational rehabilitation organizations, rehabilitation facilities (as defined in section 7(10) \1\N of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [29 U.S.C. 706(10)]), agencies serving youth, agencies serving individuals with disabilities, including disabled veterans, agencies serving displaced homemakers, union-related organizations, and employer-related nonprofit organizations), and organizations serving nonreservation Indians, as well as tribal governments and Native Alaskan groups.
  (6) Except as otherwise provided therein, the term ””council““ means the private industry council established under section 1512 of this title.
  (7) The term ””economic development agencies““ includes local planning and zoning commissions or boards, community development agencies, and other local agencies and institutions responsible for regulating, promoting, or assisting in local economic development.
  (8) The term ””economically disadvantaged““ means an individual who (A) receives, or is a member of a family which receives, cash welfare payments under a Federal, State, or local welfare program; (B) has, or is a member of a family which has, received a total family income for the six-month period prior to application for the program involved (exclusive of unemployment compensation, child support payments, and welfare payments) which, in relation to family size, was not in excess of the higher of (i) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised annually in accordance with section 9902(2) of title 42,\2\N or (ii) 70 percent of the lower living standard income level; (C) is receiving (or has been determined within the 6-month period prior to the application for the program involved to be eligible to receive) food stamps pursuant to the Food Stamp Act of 1977 [7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.]; (D) qualifies as a homeless individual under subsections (a) and (c) of section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act [42 U.S.C. 11302(a), (c)]; (E) is a foster child on behalf of whom State or local government payments are made; or (F) in cases permitted by regulations of the Secretary, is an individual with a disability whose own income meets the requirements of clause (A) or (B), but who is a member of a family whose income does not meet such requirements.
  (9) The term ””Governor““ means the chief executive of any State.
  (10)    (A) The term ””individual with a disability““ means any individual who has a physical or mental disability which for such individual constitutes or results in a substantial handicap to employment.
    (B) The term ””individuals with disabilities““ means more than one individual with a disability.
  (11) The term ””Hawaiian native““ means any individual any of whose ancestors were natives, prior to 1778, of the area which now comprises the State of Hawaii.
  (12) The term ””institution of higher education““ means any institution of higher education as that term is defined in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1141(a)].
  (13) The term ””labor market area““ means an economically integrated geographic area within which individuals can reside and find employment within a reasonable distance or can readily change employment without changing their place of residence. Such areas shall be identified in accordance with criteria used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor in defining such areas or similar criteria established by a Governor.
  (14) The term ””local educational agency““ means such an agency as defined in section 521(22) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational \3\N Education Act [20 U.S.C. 2471(22)].
  (15) The term ””low-income level““ means $7,000 with respect to income in 1969, and for any later year means that amount which bears the same relationship to $7,000 as the Consumer Price Index for that year bears to the Consumer Price Index for 1969, rounded to the nearest $1,000.
  (16) The term ””lower living standard income level““ means that income level (adjusted for regional, metropolitan, urban, and rural differences and family size) determined annually by the Secretary based on the most recent ””lower living family budget““ issued by the Secretary.
  (17) The term ””offender““ means any adult or juvenile who is or has been subject to any stage of the criminal justice process for whom services under this chapter may be beneficial or who requires assistance in overcoming artificial barriers to employment resulting from a record of arrest or conviction.
  (18) The term ””postsecondary institution““ means an institution of higher education as that term is defined in section 481(a)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1088(a)(1)].
  (19) The term ””private sector““ means, for purposes of the State job training councils and private industry councils, persons who are owners, chief executives or chief operating officers of private for-profit employers and major nongovernmental employers, such as health and educational institutions or other executives of such employers who have substantial management or policy responsibility.
  (20) The term ””public assistance““ means Federal, State, or local government cash payments for which eligibility is determined by a needs or income test.
  (21) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Labor.
  (22) The term ””State““ means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
  (23) The term ””State educational agency““ means such an agency as defined in section 14101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 8801].
  (24) The term ””supportive services““ means services which are necessary to enable an individual eligible for training under this chapter, but who cannot afford to pay for such services, to participate in a training program funded under this chapter. Such supportive services may include transportation, health care, financial assistance (except as a post-termination service), drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral, individual and family counseling, special services, and materials for individuals with disabilities, job coaches, child care and dependent care, meals, temporary shelter, financial counseling, and other reasonable expenses required for participation in the training program and may be provided in-kind or through cash assistance.
  (25) The term ””unemployed individuals““ means individuals who are without jobs and who want and are available for work. The determination of whether individuals are without jobs shall be made in accordance with the criteria used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor in defining individuals as unemployed.
  (26) The term ””unit of general local government““ means any general purpose political subdivision of a State which has the power to levy taxes and spend funds, as well as general corporate and police powers.
  (27)    (A) The term ””veteran““ means an individual who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.
    (B) The term ””disabled veteran““ means (i) a veteran who is entitled to compensation under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or (ii) an individual who was discharged or released from active duty because of service-connected disability.
    (C) The term ””recently separated veteran““ means any veteran who applies for participation under any subchapter of this chapter within 48 months of the discharge or release from active military, naval, or air service.
    (D) The term ””Vietnam era veteran““ means a veteran any part of whose active military service occurred between August 5, 1964, and May 7, 1975.
  (28) The term ””vocational education““ has the meaning provided in section 521(41) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational \4\N Education Act [20 U.S.C. 2471(41)].
  (29) The term ””displaced homemaker““ means an individual who has been providing unpaid services to family members in the home and who–
    (A) has been dependent either–
      (i) on public assistance and whose youngest child is within 2 years of losing eligibility under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.]; or
      (ii) on the income of another family member but is no longer supported by that income; and
    (B) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.
  (30) The term ””nontraditional employment““ as applied to women refers to occupations or fields of work where women comprise less than 25 percent of the individuals employed in such occupation or field of work.
  (31) The term ””basic skills deficient““ means, with respect to an individual, that the individual has English reading or computing skills at or below the 8th grade level on a generally accepted standardized test or a comparable score on a criterion-referenced test.
  (32) The term ””case management““ means the provision of a client-centered approach in the delivery of services, designed to–
    (A) prepare and coordinate comprehensive employment plans, such as service strategies, for participants to ensure access to the necessary training and supportive services, using, where feasible, computer-based technologies; and
    (B) provide job and career counseling during program participation and after job placement.
  (33) The term ””citizenship skills““ means skills and qualities, such as teamwork, problem-solving ability, self-esteem, initiative, leadership, commitment to life-long learning, and an ethic of civic responsibility, that are characteristic of productive workers and good citizens.
  (34) The term ””family““ means two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or decree of court, who are living in a single residence, and are included in one or more of the following categories:
    (A) A husband, wife, and dependent children.
    (B) A parent or guardian and dependent children.
    (C) A husband and wife.
  (35) The term ””hard-to-serve individual““ means an individual who is included in one or more of the categories described in section 1603(b) of this title or subsection (b) or (d) of section 1643 of this title.
  (36) The term ””JOBS““ means the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training Program authorized under part F \5\N of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq.).
  (37) The term ””participant““ means an individual who has been determined to be eligible to participate in and who is receiving services (except post-termination services authorized under sections 1604(c)(4) and 1644(d)(5) of this title and followup services authorized under section 1632(d) of this title) under a program authorized by this chapter. Participation shall be deemed to commence on the first day, following determination of eligibility, on which the participant began receiving subsidized employment, training, or other services provided under this chapter.
  (38) The term ””school dropout““ means an individual who is no longer attending any school and who has not received a secondary school diploma or a certificate from a program of equivalency for such a diploma.
  (39) The term ””termination““ means the separation of a participant who is no longer receiving services (except post-termination services authorized under sections 1604(c)(4) and 1644(d)(5) of this title and followup services authorized under section 1632(d) of this title) under a program authorized by this chapter.
  (40) The term ””youth corps program““ means a program, such as a conservation corps or youth service program, that offers productive work with visible community benefits in a natural resource or human service setting and that gives participants a mix of work experience, basic and life skills, education, training, and supportive services.
