  (a) Establishment; membership
     There shall be a private industry council for every service delivery area established under section 1511 of this title, to be selected in accordance with this subsection. Each council shall consist of–
    (1) representatives of the private sector, who shall constitute a majority of the membership of the council and who shall be owners of business concerns, chief executives or chief operating officers of nongovernmental employers, or other private sector executives who have substantial management or policy responsibility;
    (2) representatives of organized labor and community-based organizations, who shall constitute not less than 15 percent of the membership of the council; and
    (3) representatives of each of the following:
      (A) Educational agencies (which agencies shall be representative of all educational agencies in the service delivery area).
      (B) Vocational rehabilitation agencies.
      (C) Public assistance agencies.
      (D) Economic development agencies.
      (E) The public employment service.
  (b) Chairman
     The Chairman of the council shall be selected from among members of the council who are representatives of the private sector.
  (c) Nomination and recommendation of individuals
    (1)      (A) Private sector representatives on the council shall be selected from among individuals nominated by general purpose business organizations after consulting with, and receiving recommendations from, other business organizations in the service delivery area. The number of such nominations shall be at least 150 percent of the number of individuals to be appointed under subsection (a)(1) of this section. Such nominations, and the individuals selected from such nominations, shall reasonably represent the industrial and demographic composition of the business community. Whenever possible, at least one-half of such business and industry representatives shall be representatives of small business, including minority business.
      (B) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term–
        (i) ””general purpose business organizations““ means organizations which admit to membership any for-profit business operating within the service delivery area; and
        (ii) ””small business““ means private for-profit enterprises employing 500 or fewer employees.
    (2) The education representatives on the council shall be selected from among individuals nominated by regional or local educational agencies, vocational education institutions, institutions of higher education (including entities offering adult education) or general organizations of such institutions, within the service delivery area.
    (3) The labor representatives on the council shall be selected from individuals recommended by recognized State and local labor federations. If the State or local labor federation fails to nominate a sufficient number of individuals to meet the labor representation requirements of subsection (a)(2) of this section, individual workers may be included on the council to complete the labor representation.
    (4) The remaining members of the council shall be selected from individuals recommended by interested organizations.
  (d) Appointment of members
    (1) In any case in which there is only one unit of general local government with experience in administering job training programs within the service delivery area, the chief elected official of that unit shall appoint members to the council from the individuals nominated or recommended under subsection (c) of this section.
    (2) In any case in which there are two or more such units of general local government in the service delivery area, the chief elected officials of such units shall appoint members to the council from the individuals so nominated or recommended in accordance with an agreement entered into by such units of general local government. In the absence of such an agreement, the appointments shall be made by the Governor from the individuals so nominated or recommended.
  (e) Number of members
     The initial number of members of the council shall be determined–
    (1) by the chief elected official in the case described in subsection (d)(1) of this section,
    (2) by the chief elected officials in accordance with the agreement in the case described in subsection (d)(2) of this section, or
    (3) by the Governor in the absence of such agreement.
       Thereafter, the number of members of the council shall be determined by the council.
  (f) Terms of office; removal for cause
     Members shall be appointed for fixed and staggered terms and may serve until their successors are appointed. Any vacancy in the membership of the council shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. Any member of the council may be removed for cause in accordance with procedures established by the council.
  (g) Certification
     The Governor shall certify a private industry council if the Governor determines that its composition and appointments are consistent with the provisions of this subsection. Such certification shall be made or denied within 30 days after the date on which a list of members and necessary supporting documentation are submitted to the Governor. When the Governor certifies the council, it shall be convened within 30 days by the official or officials who made the appointments to such council under subsection (d) of this section.
  (h) Reconstitution of State job training coordinating councils
     In any case in which the service delivery area is a State, the State job training coordinating council or a portion of such council may be reconstituted to meet the requirements of this section.
