  (a) In general
     Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, an individual shall be eligible to participate in the program under this part only if such individual is–
    (1) 22 years of age or older; and
    (2) economically disadvantaged.
  (b) Hard-to-serve individuals
     Not less than 65 percent of the participants in the program under this part, other than participants served under section 1604(d) of this title, in each service delivery area shall be individuals who are included in 1 or more of the following categories:
    (1) Individuals who are basic skills deficient.
    (2) Individuals who are school dropouts.
    (3) Individuals who are recipients of cash welfare payments.
    (4) Individuals who are offenders.
    (5) Individuals with disabilities.
    (6) Individuals who are homeless.
    (7) Individuals who are in a category established under subsection (d) of this section.
  (c) Special rule
     Not more than 10 percent of participants in a program assisted under this part, other than participants served under section 1604(d) of this title, in each service delivery area may be individuals who are not economically disadvantaged if such individuals are age 22 or older and within 1 or more categories of individuals who face serious barriers to employment. Such categories may include the categories described in subsection (b) of this section, or categories such as displaced homemakers, veterans, alcoholics, or addicts.
  (d) Additional category
     A service delivery area conducting a program assisted under this part may add one category of individuals who face serious barriers to employment to the categories of eligible individuals described in subsection (b) of this section if–
    (1) the service delivery area submits a request to the Governor identifying the additional category of individuals and justifying the inclusion of such category;
    (2) the additional category of individuals is not solely comprised of–
      (A) individuals with a poor work history; or
      (B) individuals who are unemployed; and
    (3) the Governor approves the request submitted under paragraph (1) and transmits a description of the approved request to the Secretary, as part of the Governor“s coordination and special services plan under section 1531 of this title.
