  (a) In general
     Funds available under this part may be used for–
    (1) basic and remedial education, academic enrichment \1\N institutional and on-the-job training, work experience programs, youth corps programs, employment counseling, occupational training, preparation for work, outreach and enrollment activities, employability assessment, job referral and placement, job search assistance and job club activities, activities under programs described in section 1645(b) of this title, and any other employment or job training activity designed to give employment to eligible individuals or prepare the individuals for, and place the individuals in, employment;
    (2) supportive services necessary to enable such individuals to participate in the program; and
    (3) administrative costs, not to exceed 15 percent of the funds available under this part.
  (b) Basic and remedial education
    (1) In general
       A service delivery area shall expend funds (available under this chapter or otherwise available to the service delivery area) for basic and remedial education and training as described in the job training plan under section 1514 of this title.
    (2) Education or training
       The education and training authorized by paragraph (1) may be provided by–
      (A) the year-round program under part C of this subchapter;
      (B) the Job Corps;
      (C) the JOBS program;
      (D) youth corps programs;
      (E) alternative or secondary schools; or
      (F) other education and training programs.
  (c) Assessment and service strategy
    (1) Assessment
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the programs under this part shall include an objective assessment of the basic skills and supportive services needs of each participant, which may include a review of occupational skills, prior work experience, employability, interests, and aptitudes.
      (B) Recent assessment
         A new assessment, or a factor of such assessment, of a participant is not required if the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent assessment of the participant conducted pursuant to another education or training program (such as the JOBS program or a regular high school academic program).
    (2) Service strategy
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the programs under this part shall include a service strategy for participants, which may identify achievement objectives, appropriate employment goals, and appropriate services for participants, taking into account the assessments conducted under paragraph (1).
      (B) Recent service strategy
         A new service strategy for a participant is not required if the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent service strategy developed for the participant under another education or training program (such as the JOBS program or a regular high school academic program).
    (3) Basic education and preemployment training
       The programs under this part shall provide, either directly or through arrangements with other programs, each of the following services to a participant where the assessment and the service strategy indicate such services are appropriate:
      (A) Basic and Remedial Education.
      (B) Preemployment and Work Maturity Skills Training.
    (4) Integration of work and learning
      (A) Work experience
         Work experience provided under this part, to the extent feasible, shall include contextual learning opportunities which integrate the development of general competencies with the development of academic skills.
      (B) Classroom training
         Classroom training provided under this part shall, to the extent feasible, include opportunities to apply knowledge and skills relating to academic subjects to the world of work.
  (d) Followup services
     Service delivery areas shall make followup services available for participants if the service strategy indicates such services are appropriate.
  (e) Educational linkages
     In conducting the program assisted under this part, service delivery areas shall establish linkages with the appropriate educational agencies responsible for service to participants. Such linkages shall include arrangements to ensure that there is a regular exchange of information relating to the progress, problems and needs of participants, including the results of assessments of the skill levels of participants.
