  (a) Educational linkages
     In conducting the program assisted under this part, service delivery areas shall establish linkages with the appropriate educational agencies responsible for service to participants. Such linkages shall include–
    (1) formal agreements with local educational agencies that will identify–
      (A) the procedures for referring and serving in-school youth;
      (B) the methods of assessment of in-school youth; and
      (C) procedures for notifying the program when a youth drops out of the school system;
    (2) arrangements to ensure that the program under this part supplements existing programs provided by local educational agencies to in-school youth;
    (3) arrangements to ensure that the program under this part utilizes, to the extent possible, existing services provided by local educational agencies to out-of-school youth; and
    (4) arrangements to ensure that for in-school participants there is a regular exchange of information between the program and the educational agency relating to participant progress, problems, and needs, including, in appropriate circumstances, interim assessment results.
  (b) Education and training program linkages
     In conducting the program assisted under this part, service delivery areas shall establish appropriate linkages with other education and training programs authorized under Federal law. Such programs shall include, where feasible, programs assisted under–
    (1) part B of subchapter IV of this chapter (the Job Corps);
    (2) parts A through C of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6311 et seq.];
    (3) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
    (4) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.);
    (5) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
    (6) the portion of title IV of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.] relating to work activities;
    (7) the Food Stamp Act \1\N (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.);
    (8) the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
    (9) the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law 100–77; 101 Stat. 482) [42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.]; and
    (10) any other provisions of this chapter.
  (c) Other programs
     In addition to the linkages required under subsections (a) and (b) of this section, service delivery areas receiving financial assistance under this part shall establish other appropriate linkages to enhance the provision of services under this part. Such linkages may be established with State and local service agencies, public housing agencies, community-based organizations, business and labor organizations, volunteer groups working with at-risk youth, parents and family members, juvenile justice systems, and other training, education, employment and social service programs, including programs conducted under part A of this subchapter.
  (d) Schoolwide projects for low-income schools
     In conducting a program serving individuals specified in section 1643(g) of this title, the service delivery area shall establish a cooperative arrangement with the appropriate local educational agency that shall, in addition to the other requirements of this section, include–
    (1) a description of the ways in which the program will supplement the educational program of the school;
    (2) identification of measurable goals to be achieved by the program and provision for assessing the extent to which such goals are met;
    (3) a description of the ways in which the program will use resources provided under this part and resources provided under other education programs to achieve the goals identified in paragraph (2);
    (4) a description of the number of individuals to be served; and
    (5) assurances that the resources provided under this part shall be used to supplement and not supplant existing sources of funds.
