  (a) Designation of substate areas
    (1) The Governor of each State shall, after receiving any recommendations from the State job training coordinating council, designate substate areas for the State.
    (2) Each service delivery area within a State shall be included within a substate area and no service delivery area shall be divided among two or more substate areas.
    (3) In making designations of substate areas, the Governor shall consider–
      (A) the availability of services throughout the State;
      (B) the capability to coordinate the delivery of services with other human services and economic development programs; and
      (C) the geographic boundaries of labor market areas within the State.
    (4) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Governor–
      (A) shall designate as a substate area any single service delivery area that has a population of 200,000 or more;
      (B) shall designate as a substate area any two or more contiguous service delivery areas–
        (i) that in the aggregate have a population of 200,000 or more; and
        (ii) that request such designation; and
      (C) shall designate as a substate area any concentrated employment program grantee for a rural area described in section 1511(a)(4)(A)(iii) of this title.
    (5) The Governor may deny a request for designation under paragraph (4)(B) if the Governor determines that such designation would not be consistent with the effective delivery of services to eligible dislocated workers in various labor market areas (including urban and rural areas) within the State, or would not otherwise be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
    (6) The designations made under this section may not be revised more than once each two years, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
  (b) Designation of substate grantees
     A substate grantee shall be designated, on a biennial basis, for each substate area. Such substate grantee shall be designated in accordance with an agreement among the Governor, the local elected official or officials of such area, and the private industry council or councils of such area. Whenever a substate area is represented by more than one such official or council, the respective officials and councils shall each designate representatives, in accordance with procedures established by the Governor (after consultation with the State job training coordinating council), to negotiate such agreement. In the event agreement cannot be reached on the selection of a substate grantee, the Governor shall select the substate grantee.
  (c) Eligibility
     Entities eligible for designation as substate grantees include–
    (1) private industry councils in the substate area;
    (2) service delivery area grant recipients or administrative entities;
    (3) private nonprofit organizations;
    (4) units of general local government in the substate area, or agencies thereof;
    (5) local offices of State agencies; and
    (6) other public agencies, such as community colleges and area vocational schools.
  (d) Functions of substate grantees
     The substate grantee shall be responsible for providing, within such substate area, services described in section 1661c(c), (d), and (e) of this title pursuant to an agreement with the Governor and in accordance with the State plan under section 1661 of this title and the substate plan under section 1661b of this title. The substate grantee may provide such services directly or through contract, grant, or agreement with service providers.
  (e) Applicability of general administrative provisions to substate grantees
     The requirements of parts C and D of subchapter I of this chapter that apply to an administrative entity or a recipient of financial assistance under this chapter shall also apply to substate grantees under this subchapter.
