  (a) Operation through existing agencies and organizations; center functions; Civilian Conservation Centers; training centers; limit on nonresidential participants
    (1) The Secretary may make agreements with Federal, State, or local agencies, including a State board or agency designated pursuant to section 111(a)(1) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act [20 U.S.C. 2321(a)(1)] which operates or wishes to develop area vocational education school facilities or residential vocational schools (or both) as authorized by such Act [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.], or private organizations for the establishment and operation of Job Corps centers. Job Corps centers may, subject to paragraph (2), be residential or nonresidential in character, or both, and shall be designed and operated so as to provide enrollees, in a well-supervised setting, with education, vocational training, work experience (either in direct program activities or through arrangements with employers), counseling, and other services appropriate to their needs. The centers shall include Civilian Conservation Centers, located primarily in rural areas, which shall provide, in addition to other training and assistance, programs of work experience to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest. The centers shall also include training centers located in either urban or rural areas which shall provide activities including training and other services for specific types of skilled or semiskilled employment.
    (2) In any year, not more than 20 percent of the individuals enrolled in the Job Corps may be nonresidential participants. In enrolling individuals who are to be nonresidential participants, priority shall be given to those eligible individuals who are single parents with dependent children. The Secretary shall not reduce the number of residential participants in Job Corps programs under this part during any program year below the number of residential participants during program year 1991 in order to increase the number of individuals who are nonresidential participants in the Job Corps.
  (b) Availability of center opportunities to participants in other programs
     To the extent feasible, Job Corps centers shall offer education and vocational training opportunities, together with supportive services, on a nonresidential basis to participants in other programs under this chapter. Such opportunities may be offered on a reimbursable basis or through such other arrangements as the Secretary may specify.
  (c) Limitation of use of Department of Labor appropriations; nongovernmental contracts
     No funds appropriated to the Department of Labor for any fiscal year may be used to carry out any contract with a nongovernmental entity to administer or manage a Civilian Conservation Center of the Job Corps.
