  (a) Subsistence; rates of allowances; incentive and disciplinary variations
     The Secretary shall provide enrollees with such personal, travel, and leave allowances, and such quarters, subsistence, transportation, equipment, clothing, recreational services, and other expenses as he may deem necessary or appropriate to their needs. For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1983, personal allowances shall be established at a rate not to exceed $65 per month during the first six months of an enrollee“s participation in the program and not to exceed $110 per month thereafter, except that allowances in excess of $65 per month, but not exceeding $110 per month, may be provided from the beginning of an enrollee“s participation if it is expected to be of less than six months“ duration and the Secretary is authorized to pay personal allowances in excess of the rates specified in this subsection in unusual circumstances as determined by him. Such allowances shall be graduated up to the maximum so as to encourage continued participation in the program, achievement and the best use by the enrollee of the funds so provided and shall be subject to reduction in appropriate cases as a disciplinary measure. To the degree reasonable, enrollees shall be required to meet or contribute to costs associated with their individual comfort and enjoyment from their personal allowances.
  (b) Rules governing leave
     The Secretary shall prescribe rules governing the accrual of leave by enrollees. Except in the case of emergency, he shall in no event assume transportation costs connected with leave of any enrollee who has not completed at least six months“ service in the Job Corps.
  (c) Termination readjustment allowance: minimum period; advances; misconduct penalty; payment in case of death
     The Secretary may provide each former enrollee upon termination, a readjustment allowance at a rate not to exceed, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1983, $110 for each month of satisfactory participation in the Job Corps. No enrollee shall be entitled to a readjustment allowance unless he has remained in the program at least 90 days, except in unusual circumstances as determined by the Secretary. The Secretary may, from time to time, advance to or on behalf of an enrollee such portions of his readjustment allowances as the Secretary deems necessary to meet extraordinary financial obligations incurred by that enrollee. The Secretary is authorized, pursuant to rules or regulations, to reduce the amount of an enrollee“s readjustment allowance as a penalty for misconduct during participation in the Job Corps. In the event of an enrollee“s death during his period of service, the amount of any unpaid readjustment allowance shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of section 5582 of title 5.
  (d) Remittance to dependents; supplement
     Such portion of the readjustment allowance as prescribed by the Secretary may be paid monthly during the period of service of the enrollee directly to a spouse or child of an enrollee, or to any other relative who draws substantial support from the enrollee, and any amount so paid shall be supplemented by the payment of an equal amount by the Secretary.
  (e) Child care costs
     In addition to child care assistance provided under section 1698(e) of this title, the Secretary shall provide enrollees who otherwise could not participate in the Job Corps with allowances to pay for child care costs, such as food, clothing, and health care for the child. Allowances under this subsection may only be provided during the first 2 months of an enrollee“s participation in the program.
