  (a) Statement of purpose
     It is the purpose of this section to assist the United States in expanding employment opportunities and ensuring access to such opportunities for all who desire such opportunities.
  (b) Program established
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall establish a comprehensive program of training and employment research, utilizing the methods, techniques, and knowledge of the behavioral and social sciences and such other methods, techniques, and knowledge as will aid in the solution of the employment and training problems of the United States.
    (2) Studies
       The program established under this section may include studies concerning–
      (A) the development or improvement of Federal, State, local, and privately supported employment and training programs;
      (B) labor market processes and outcomes, including improving workplace literacy;
      (C) policies and programs to reduce unemployment and the relationships of the policies and programs with price stability and other national goals;
      (D) productivity of labor;
      (E) improved means of using projections of labor supply and demand, including occupational and skill requirements and areas of labor shortages at the national and subnational levels;
      (F) methods of improving the wages and employment opportunities of low-skilled, disadvantaged, and dislocated workers, and workers with obsolete skills;
      (G) methods of addressing the needs of at-risk populations, such as youth, homeless individuals and other dependent populations, older individuals, and other groups with multiple barriers to employment;
      (H) methods of developing information on immigration, international trade and competition, technological change, and labor shortages; and
        (I) methods of easing the transition from school to work, from transfer payment receipt to self-sufficiency, from one job to another, and from work to retirement.
  (c) Pilot and demonstration programs
    (1) Program established
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall establish a program of pilot and demonstration programs for the purpose of developing and improving techniques and demonstrating the effectiveness of specialized methods in addressing employment and training needs. The Secretary may award grants and enter into contracts with entities to carry out the programs.
      (B) Projects
         Such programs may include projects in such areas as–
        (i) school-to-work transition;
        (ii) new methods of imparting literacy skills and basic education;
        (iii) new training techniques (including projects undertaken with the private sector);
        (iv) methods to eliminate artificial barriers to employment;
        (v) approaches that foster participation of groups that encounter special problems in the labor market (such as displaced homemakers, teen parents, welfare recipients, and older individuals);
        (vi) processes that demonstrate effective methods for alleviating the adverse effects of dislocations and plant closings on workers and their communities; and
        (vii) cooperative ventures among business, industry, labor, trade associations, community-based organizations or nonprofit organizations to develop new and cost-effective approaches to improving work force literacy.
    (2) Evaluation component
       Demonstration programs assisted under this subsection shall include a formal, rigorous evaluation component. Pilot programs assisted under this subsection shall include an appropriate evaluation component.
    (3) Special rule
       No demonstration program under this subsection shall be assisted under this section for a period of more than 7 years. No pilot program under this subsection shall be assisted under this section for a period of more than 3 years.
  (d) Evaluation
    (1) Programs
      (A) Job training programs
         The Secretary shall provide for the continuing evaluation of programs conducted under this chapter, including the cost effectiveness of the program in achieving the purposes of this chapter.
      (B) Other programs
         The Secretary may conduct evaluations of other federally funded employment-related activities including programs administered under–
        (i) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
        (ii) the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
        (iii) the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.);
        (iv) chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 et seq.); and
        (v) the Federal unemployment insurance program under titles III, IX, and XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 501 et seq., 1101 et seq., and 1321 et seq.).
    (2) Techniques
      (A) Methods
         Evaluations conducted under paragraph (1) shall utilize sound statistical methods and techniques of the behavioral and social sciences, including random assignment methodologies if feasible.
      (B) Analysis
         Such evaluations may include cost-benefit analysis of programs, the impact of the programs on community and participants, the extent to which programs meet the needs of various demographic groups, and the effectiveness of the delivery systems used by various programs.
      (C) Effectiveness
         The Secretary shall evaluate the effectiveness of programs authorized under this chapter with respect to–
        (i) the statutory goals;
        (ii) the performance standards established by the Secretary; and
        (iii) the extent to which such programs enhance the employment and earnings of participants, reduce income support costs, improve the employment competencies of participants in comparison to comparable persons who did not participate in such programs, and, to the extent feasible, increase the level of total employment over the level that would have existed in the absence of such programs.
