  (a) In general
     Each State may, in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, establish a single State human resource investment council (in this subchapter referred to as the ””State Council““) that–
    (1) shall review the provision of services and the use of funds and resources under applicable Federal human resource programs and advise the Governor on methods of coordinating such provision of services and use of funds and resources consistent with the laws and regulations governing such programs;
    (2) shall advise the Governor on the development and implementation of State and local standards and measures relating to applicable Federal human resource programs and coordination of such standards and measures;
    (3) shall carry out the duties and functions prescribed for existing State councils described under the laws relating to the applicable Federal human resource programs;
    (4) may identify the human investment needs in the State and recommend to the Governor goals for meeting such needs;
    (5) may recommend to the Governor goals for the development and coordination of the human resource system in the State;
    (6) may prepare and recommend to the Governor a strategic plan to accomplish the goals developed pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5); and
    (7) may monitor the implementation of and evaluate the effectiveness of the strategic plan prepared pursuant to paragraph (6).
  (b) ””Applicable Federal human resource program““ defined
    (1) In general
      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), for purposes of this subchapter, the term ””applicable Federal human resource program““ includes any program authorized under the provisions of law described under paragraph (2)(A) that the Governor and the head of the State agency responsible for the administration of such program jointly agree to include within the jurisdiction of the State Council.
      (B) With respect to a program authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) under paragraph (2)(A)(ii), the term ””applicable Federal human resource program““ shall only apply to such program if, in addition to meeting the requirements of subparagraph (A), the State council on vocational education agrees to include such program under the jurisdiction of the State Council.
    (2) Programs
       In accordance with the requirements of paragraph (1), applicable Federal human resource programs–
      (A) may include the programs authorized under–
        (i) this chapter;
        (ii) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
        (iii) the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.);
        (iv) the Adult Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.);
        (v) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
        (vi) part F of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq.); and
        (vii) the employment program established under section 6(d)(4) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)); and
      (B) may not include programs authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.).
