   As used in this chapter:
  (1) The term ””adult population““ includes individuals aged 22 through 64.
  (2) The term ””community-based organization““ has the same meaning given that term in section 1503 of this title.
  (3) The term ””displaced homemaker““ means an individual who has been providing unpaid services to family members in the home and who–
    (A) has been dependent either–
      (i) on public assistance and whose youngest child is within 2 years of losing eligibility under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.], or
      (ii) on the income of another family member but is no longer supported by that income, and
    (B) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.
  (4) The term ””eligible service provider““ means–
    (A) a community-based organization;
    (B) a local educational agency (as such term is defined in section 1503 of this title);
    (C) a postsecondary school (as such term is defined in such section);
    (D) an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in such section);
    (E) an area vocational education school (as such term is defined in such section); or
    (F) other entities designated by the Governor that have the demonstrated ability to meet the needs of displaced homemakers.
  (5) The term ””eligible statewide public agency or statewide nonprofit organization““ means agencies and organizations with demonstrated experience administering programs that serve displaced homemakers.
  (6) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Labor.
  (7) The term ””State““ includes any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
  (8) The term ””supportive services assistance““ means assistance which is necessary to enable an individual eligible for services under this chapter to participate in programs funded under this chapter. Such services may include transportation, health care, special services and materials for the handicapped, child care, adult dependent care, meals, temporary shelter, financial counseling and other reasonable expenses required for participation in the program and may be provided in-kind or through cash assistance.
