  (a) Center activities
     Payments made under this chapter may be used to establish and operate the Center, to bring together major independent researchers from the Center“s member-institutions focused on the most significant workplace problems with the aim of analysis and synthesis of policy implications and dissemination of findings, and to support the following activities:
    (1) The coordination and funding of research activities of the Center“s member-institutions for collaborative collection and evaluation of data on changes and trends in the workplace and in the labor force, on established and emerging public policy issues, on the economic and occupational structures, and on work organizations and employment conditions.
    (2) The analysis of the public policy implications of social and demographic changes in the United States as they relate to the workplace.
    (3) The conduct of seminars for Federal and State policymakers on policy implications of the Center“s findings. Such seminars shall be held not more frequently than once each year. In addition, the Center shall utilize electronic technology, such as computer networks and video conferencing, to convey the cumulative value of the Center“s activities from year to year and to foster continuous exchange of ideas and information.
    (4) The conduct of a National Conference on employment policy not more frequently than once each year for the leaders of business and organized labor in the United States designed to convey the cumulative value of the Center“s activities and to foster an exchange of ideas and information.
    (5) The nonpartisan evaluation of the economic and social implications of national and international workplace and employment issues.
    (6) The provision of ready access to the Center“s collective expertise for policy officials in the Federal and State governments and representatives of private and public sector organizations through meetings, publications, special reports, video conferences, electronic mail and computer networks, and other means to share up-to-date information on workplace and employment issues, practices, and innovations, the most promising options, and guidance in management of the change process.
    (7) The development of programs, curricula, and instructional materials for colleges, universities, and other educational institutions designed to impart the knowledge and skills required to promote innovations in the design of work and employment conditions that enhance organizational performance and meet worker needs.
    (8) The development and administration of a national repository of information on key workplace issues that can be readily accessed by the public and private sector.
  (b) Fellowships
     Grant funds awarded under this chapter \1\N may also be used to provide graduate assistantships and fellowships at the Center to encourage graduate study of the field of employment policy and to encourage graduate research in areas that are seen as critical to national competitiveness.
