  (a) Composition
    (1) Appointments
       The Commission shall be composed of 12 voting members and 4 ex officio members to be appointed not later than 60 days after February 5, 1993, as follows:
      (A) Senators
         One Senator shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate, and one Senator shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate.
      (B) Members of House of Representatives
         One Member of the House of Representatives shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and one Member of the House of Representatives shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
      (C) Additional members
        (i) Appointment
           Two members each shall be appointed by–
          (I) the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
          (II) the Majority Leader of the Senate;
          (III) the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives; and
          (IV) the Minority Leader of the Senate.
        (ii) Expertise
           Such members shall be appointed by virtue of demonstrated expertise in relevant family, temporary disability, and labor management issues. Such members shall include representatives of employers, including employers from large businesses and from small businesses.
    (2) Ex officio members
       The Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall serve on the Commission as nonvoting ex officio members.
  (b) Vacancies
     Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made. The vacancy shall not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Commission.
  (c) Chairperson and vice chairperson
     The Commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson from among the members of the Commission.
  (d) Quorum
     Eight members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for all purposes, except that a lesser number may constitute a quorum for the purpose of holding hearings.
