   In this subchapter:
  (1) Applicable local board
     The term ””applicable local board““ means a local board–
    (A) that provides information for a Job Corps center on local employment opportunities and the job skills needed to obtain the opportunities; and
    (B) that serves communities in which the graduates of the Job Corps center seek employment.
  (2) Applicable one-stop center
     The term ””applicable one-stop center““ means a one-stop customer service center that provides services, such as referral, intake, recruitment, and placement, to a Job Corps center.
  (3) Enrollee
     The term ””enrollee““ means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, and remains with the program, but has not yet become a graduate.
  (4) Former enrollee
     The term ””former enrollee““ means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, but left the program before completing the requirements of a vocational training program, or receiving a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent, as a result of participation in the Job Corps program.
  (5) Graduate
     The term ””graduate““ means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program and has completed the requirements of a vocational training program, or received a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent, as a result of participation in the Job Corps program.
  (6) Job Corps
     The term ””Job Corps““ means the Job Corps described in section 2883 of this title.
  (7) Job Corps center
     The term ””Job Corps center““ means a center described in section 2887 of this title.
  (8) Operator
     The term ””operator““ means an entity selected under this subchapter to operate a Job Corps center.
  (9) Region
     The term ””region““ means an area served by a regional office of the Employment and Training Administration.
  (10) Service provider
     The term ””service provider““ means an entity selected under this subchapter to provide services described in this subchapter to a Job Corps center.
