  (a) Purpose
    (1) In general
       The purpose of this section is to support employment and training activities for Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian individuals in order–
      (A) to develop more fully the academic, occupational, and literacy skills of such individuals;
      (B) to make such individuals more competitive in the workforce; and
      (C) to promote the economic and social development of Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian communities in accordance with the goals and values of such communities.
    (2) Indian policy
       All programs assisted under this section shall be administered in a manner consistent with the principles of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) and the government-to-government relationship between the Federal Government and Indian tribal governments.
  (b) Definitions
     As used in this section:
    (1) Alaska Native
       The term ””Alaska Native““ means a Native as such term is defined in section 1602(b) of title 43.
    (2) Indian, Indian tribe, and tribal organization
       The terms ””Indian““, ””Indian tribe““, and ””tribal organization““ have the meanings given such terms in subsections (d), (e), and (T3lK), respectively, of section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
    (3) Native Hawaiian and Native Hawaiian organization
       The terms ””Native Hawaiian““ and ””Native Hawaiian organization““ have the meanings given such terms in section 7517 of title 20.
  (c) Program authorized
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall, on a competitive basis, make grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, Alaska Native entities, Indian-controlled organizations serving Indians, or Native Hawaiian organizations to carry out the authorized activities described in subsection (d) of this section.
    (2) Exception
       The competition for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements conducted under paragraph (1) shall be conducted every 2 years, except that if a recipient of such a grant, contract, or agreement has performed satisfactorily, the Secretary may waive the requirements for such competition on receipt from the recipient of a satisfactory 2-year program plan for the succeeding 2-year period of the grant, contract, or agreement.
  (d) Authorized activities
    (1) In general
       Funds made available under subsection (c) of this section shall be used to carry out the activities described in paragraph (2) that–
      (A) are consistent with this section; and
      (B) are necessary to meet the needs of Indians or Native Hawaiians preparing to enter, reenter, or retain unsubsidized employment.
    (2) Workforce investment activities and supplemental services
      (A) In general
         Funds made available under subsection (c) of this section shall be used for–
        (i) comprehensive workforce investment activities for Indians or Native Hawaiians; or
        (ii) supplemental services for Indian or Native Hawaiian youth on or near Indian reservations and in Oklahoma, Alaska, or Hawaii.
      (B) Special rule
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, individuals who were eligible to participate in programs under section 1671 of this title (as such section was in effect on the day before August 7, 1998) shall be eligible to participate in an activity assisted under this section.
  (e) Program plan
     In order to receive a grant or enter into a contract or cooperative agreement under this section an entity described in subsection (c) of this section shall submit to the Secretary a program plan that describes a 2-year strategy for meeting the needs of Indian, Alaska Native, or Native Hawaiian individuals, as appropriate, in the area served by such entity. Such plan shall–
    (1) be consistent with the purpose of this section;
    (2) identify the population to be served;
    (3) identify the education and employment needs of the population to be served and the manner in which the activities to be provided will strengthen the ability of the individuals served to obtain or retain unsubsidized employment;
    (4) describe the activities to be provided and the manner in which such activities are to be integrated with other appropriate activities; and
    (5) describe, after the entity submitting the plan consults with the Secretary, the performance measures to be used to assess the performance of entities in carrying out the activities assisted under this section.
  (f) Consolidation of funds
     Each entity receiving assistance under subsection (c) of this section may consolidate such assistance with assistance received from related programs in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 (25 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.).
  (g) Nonduplicative and nonexclusive services
     Nothing in this section shall be construed–
    (1) to limit the eligibility of any entity described in subsection (c) of this section to participate in any activity offered by a State or local entity under this Act; or
    (2) to preclude or discourage any agreement, between any entity described in subsection (c) of this section and any State or local entity, to facilitate the provision of services by such entity or to the population served by such entity.
  (h) Administrative provisions
    (1) Organizational unit established
       The Secretary shall designate a single organizational unit within the Department of Labor that shall have primary responsibility for the administration of the activities authorized under this section.
    (2) Regulations
       The Secretary shall consult with the entities described in subsection (c) of this section in–
      (A) establishing regulations to carry out this section, including performance measures for entities receiving assistance under such subsection, taking into account the economic circumstances of such entities; and
      (B) developing a funding distribution plan that takes into consideration previous levels of funding (prior to August 7, 1998) to such entities.
    (3) Waivers
      (A) In general
         With respect to an entity described in subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary, notwithstanding any other provision of law, may, pursuant to a request submitted by such entity that meets the requirements established under subparagraph (B), waive any of the statutory or regulatory requirements of this chapter that are inconsistent with the specific needs of the entities described in such subsection, except that the Secretary may not waive requirements relating to wage and labor standards, worker rights, participation and protection of workers and participants, grievance procedures, and judicial review.
      (B) Request and approval
         An entity described in subsection (c) of this section that requests a waiver under subparagraph (A) shall submit a plan to the Secretary to improve the program of workforce investment activities carried out by the entity, which plan shall meet the requirements established by the Secretary and shall be generally consistent with the requirements of section 2939(i)(4)(B) of this title.
    (4) Advisory council
      (A) In general
         Using funds made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall establish a Native American Employment and Training Council to facilitate the consultation described in paragraph (2).
      (B) Composition
         The Council shall be composed of individuals, appointed by the Secretary, who are representatives of the entities described in subsection (c) of this section.
      (C) Duties
         The Council shall advise the Secretary on all aspects of the operation and administration of the programs assisted under this section, including the selection of the individual appointed as the head of the unit established under paragraph (1).
      (D) Personnel matters
        (i) Compensation of members
           Members of the Council shall serve without compensation.
        (ii) Travel expenses
           The members of the Council shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Council.
        (iii) Administrative support
           The Secretary shall provide the Council with such administrative support as may be necessary to perform the functions of the Council.
      (E) Chairperson
         The Council shall select a chairperson from among its members.
      (F) Meetings
         The Council shall meet not less than twice each year.
      (G) Application
         Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Council.
    (5) Technical assistance
       The Secretary, acting through the unit established under paragraph (1), is authorized to provide technical assistance to entities described in subsection (c) of this section that receive assistance under subsection (c) of this section to enable such entities to improve the activities authorized under this section that are provided by such entities.
    (6) Agreement for certain federally recognized Indian tribes to transfer funds to the program
       A federally recognized Indian tribe that administers funds provided under this section and funds provided by more than one State under other sections of this chapter may enter into an agreement with the Secretary and the Governors of the affected States to transfer the funds provided by the States to the program administered by the tribe under this section.
      (i) Compliance with single audit requirements; related requirement
         Grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements entered into under this section shall be subject to the requirements of chapter 75 of subtitle V of title 31 (enacted by the Single Audit Act of 1984) and charging of costs under this section shall be subject to appropriate circulars issued by the Office of Management and Budget.
      (j) Assistance to American Samoans in Hawaii
        (1) In general
           Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized to provide assistance to American Samoans who reside in Hawaii for the co-location of federally funded and State-funded workforce investment activities.
        (2) Authorization of appropriations
           There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1999 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.
