  (a) General administration
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services of the Department of Education, acting through the Rehabilitation Services Administration, shall be responsible for the administration of this chapter.
    (2) Collaboration
       The Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services shall consult with the Office of Special Education Programs, the Rehabilitation Services Administration, and the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research in the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, and appropriate Federal entities in the administration of this chapter.
    (3) Administration
       In administering this chapter, the Rehabilitation Services Administration shall ensure that programs funded under this chapter will address the needs of individuals with disabilities of all ages, whether the individuals will use the assistive technology to obtain or maintain employment, to obtain education, or for other reasons.
    (4) Orderly transition
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall take such steps as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to provide for the orderly transition to, and implementation of, programs authorized by this chapter, from programs authorized by this chapter, as in effect on the day before October 25, 2004.
      (B) Cessation of effectiveness
         Subparagraph (A) ceases to be effective on the date that is 6 months after October 25, 2004.
  (b) Review of participating entities
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall assess the extent to which entities that receive grants under this chapter are complying with the applicable requirements of this chapter and achieving measurable goals that are consistent with the requirements of the grant programs under which the entities received the grants.
    (2) Provision of information
       To assist the Secretary in carrying out the responsibilities of the Secretary under this section, the Secretary may require States to provide relevant information, including the information required under subsection (d).
  (c) Corrective action and sanctions
    (1) Corrective action
       If the Secretary determines that an entity that receives a grant under this chapter fails to substantially comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter, or to make substantial progress toward achieving the measurable goals described in subsection (b)(1) with respect to the grant program, the Secretary shall assist the entity, through technical assistance funded under section 3005 of this title or other means, within 90 days after such determination, to develop a corrective action plan.
    (2) Sanctions
       If the entity fails to develop and comply with a corrective action plan described in paragraph (1) during a fiscal year, the entity shall be subject to 1 of the following corrective actions selected by the Secretary:
      (A) Partial or complete termination of funding under the grant program, until the entity develops and complies with such a plan.
      (B) Ineligibility to participate in the grant program in the following year.
      (C) Reduction in the amount of funding that may be used for indirect costs under section 3003 of this title for the following year.
      (D) Required redesignation of the lead agency designated under section 3003(c)(1) of this title or an entity responsible for administering the grant program.
    (3) Appeals procedures
       The Secretary shall establish appeals procedures for entities that are determined to be in noncompliance with the applicable requirements of this chapter, or have not made substantial progress toward achieving the measurable goals described in subsection (b)(1).
    (4) Secretarial action
       As part of the annual report required under subsection (d), the Secretary shall describe each such action taken under paragraph (1) or (2) and the outcomes of each such action.
    (5) Public notification
       The Secretary shall notify the public, by posting on the Internet website of the Department of Education, of each action taken by the Secretary under paragraph (1) or (2). As a part of such notification, the Secretary shall describe each such action taken under paragraph (1) or (2) and the outcomes of each such action.
  (d) Annual report to Congress
    (1) In general
       Not later than December 31 of each year, the Secretary shall prepare, and submit to the President and to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, a report on the activities funded under this chapter to improve the access of individuals with disabilities to assistive technology devices and assistive technology services.
    (2) Contents
       Such report shall include–
      (A) a compilation and summary of the information provided by the States in annual progress reports submitted under section 3003(f) of this title; and
      (B) a summary of the State applications described in section 3003(d) of this title and an analysis of the progress of the States in meeting the measurable goals established in State applications under section 3003(d)(3) of this title.
  (e) Construction
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the enforcement authority of the Secretary, another Federal officer, or a court under part D of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1234 et seq.) or other applicable law.
  (f) Effect on other assistance
     This chapter may not be construed as authorizing a Federal or State agency to reduce medical or other assistance available, or to alter eligibility for a benefit or service, under any other Federal law.
  (g) Rule
     This chapter (as in effect on the day before October 25, 2004) shall apply to funds appropriated under this chapter for fiscal year 2004.
