  (a) Designation of State agency to assist State in identifying State needs and responsibilities and in developing State plans
     The Secretary is authorized, during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971, and the two succeeding fiscal years, to make grants to the States which have designated a State agency under section 667 of this title to assist them–
    (1) in identifying their needs and responsibilities in the area of occupational safety and health,
    (2) in developing State plans under section 667 of this title, or
    (3) in developing plans for–
      (A) establishing systems for the collection of information concerning the nature and frequency of occupational injuries and diseases;
      (B) increasing the expertise and enforcement capabilities of their personnel engaged in occupational safety and health programs; or
      (C) otherwise improving the administration and enforcement of State occupational safety and health laws, including standards thereunder, consistent with the objectives of this chapter.
  (b) Experimental and demonstration projects
     The Secretary is authorized, during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971, and the two succeeding fiscal years, to make grants to the States for experimental and demonstration projects consistent with the objectives set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) Designation by Governor of appropriate State agency for receipt of grant
     The Governor of the State shall designate the appropriate State agency for receipt of any grant made by the Secretary under this section.
  (d) Submission of application
     Any State agency designated by the Governor of the State desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application therefor to the Secretary.
  (e) Approval or rejection of application
     The Secretary shall review the application, and shall, after consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, approve or reject such application.
  (f) Federal share
     The Federal share for each State grant under subsection (a) or (b) of this section may not exceed 90 per centum of the total cost of the application. In the event the Federal share for all States under either such subsection is not the same, the differences among the States shall be established on the basis of objective criteria.
  (g) Administration and enforcement of programs contained in approved State plans; Federal share
     The Secretary is authorized to make grants to the States to assist them in administering and enforcing programs for occupational safety and health contained in State plans approved by the Secretary pursuant to section 667 of this title. The Federal share for each State grant under this subsection may not exceed 50 per centum of the total cost to the State of such a program. The last sentence of subsection (f) of this section shall be applicable in determining the Federal share under this subsection.
  (h) Report to President and Congress
     Prior to June 30, 1973, the Secretary shall, after consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, transmit a report to the President and to the Congress, describing the experience under the grant programs authorized by this section and making any recommendations he may deem appropriate.
