  (a)    (1) The Commissioner, subject to the provisions of section 776 of this title, shall make grants to States, public agencies, and nonprofit private organizations for paying the Federal share of the cost of initiation of recreation programs to provide individuals with disabilities with recreational activities and related experiences to aid in the employment, mobility, socialization, independence, and community integration of such individuals. The programs authorized to be assisted under this section may include, but are not limited to, vocational skills development, leisure education, leisure networking, leisure resource development, physical education and sports, scouting and camping, 4–H activities, music, dancing, handicrafts, art, and homemaking. Whenever possible and appropriate, such programs and activities should be provided in settings with peers who are not individuals with disabilities. Programs and activities under this section shall be designed to demonstrate ways in which such programs assist in maximizing the independence and integration of individuals with disabilities.
    (2) Each such grant shall be made for a period of not more than 3 years. Such a grant shall not be renewable, except that the Commissioner may renew such a grant if the Commissioner determines that the grant recipient will continue to develop model or innovative programs of exceptional merit or will contribute substantially to the development or improvement of special recreational programs in other locations.
    (3) No grant may be made under this section unless the agreement with respect to such grant contains provisions to assure that, to the extent possible, existing resources will be used to carry out the activities for which the grant is to be made.
    (4) To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State, agency, or organization shall submit an application to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Commissioner may require, including a description of–
      (A) the manner in which the findings and results of the project will be made generally available; and
      (B) the means by which the service program will be continued after Federal assistance ends.
    (5) Recreation programs funded under this section shall maintain, at a minimum, the same level of services over a 3-year project period.
    (6) The Commissioner shall, not later than 180 days after October 29, 1992, develop means to objectively evaluate, and encourage the replication of, activities assisted by this section.
    (7) The Commissioner shall require each recipient of a grant under this section to annually prepare and submit a report on the results of the activities assisted by the grant. The Commissioner shall not make financial assistance available to a grant recipient for a subsequent year until the Commissioner has received and evaluated such a report from the recipient regarding the current year.
    (8) The Commissioner shall annually issue and provide for the dissemination of a report describing the findings and results of programs funded by this section.
    (9) The Federal share of the costs of the recreation programs shall be 100 percent for the first year of the grant, 75 percent for the second year, and 50 percent for the third year.
  (b) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997.
