   Mary Park Foster (Mrs. John W. Foster), of Indiana; Mary Virginia Ellet Cabell (Mrs. William D. Cabell), of Virginia; Helen Mason Boynton (Mrs. Henry V. Boynton), of Ohio; Henrietta Greely (Mrs. A. W. Greely), of Washington, District of Columbia; Lelie Dent Saint Clair (Mrs. F. O. Saint Clair), of Maryland; Regina M. Knott (Mrs. A. Leo Knott), of Maryland; Sara Agnes Rice Pryor (Mrs. Roger A. Pryor), of New York; Sarah Ford Judd Goode (Mrs. G. Brown Goode), of Washington, District of Columbia; Mary Desha, of Kentucky; Sue Virginia Field (Mrs. Stephen J. Field), of California; Sallie Kennedy Alexander (Mrs. Thomas Alexander), of Washington, District of Columbia; Rosa Wright Smith, of Washington, District of Columbia; Sarah C. J. Hagan (Mrs. Hugh Hagan), of Georgia; Mary Stiner Putnam (Mrs. John Risley Putnam), of New York; Mary Leighton Shields (Mrs. George H. Shields), of Missouri; Ellen Hardin Walworth, of New York; Mary E. MacDonald (Mrs. Marshall MacDonald), of Virginia; Eugenia Washington, of Virginia; Alice M. Clarke (Mrs. A. Howard Clarke), of Massachusetts; Clara Barton, of Washington, District of Columbia; Mary S. Lockwood, of Washington, District of Columbia; Frances B. Hamlin (Mrs. Teunis S. Hamlin), of Washington, District of Columbia; Martha C. B. Clarke (Mrs. Arthur E. Clarke), of New Hampshire; Lucia E. Blount (Mrs. Henry Blount), of Indiana; Jennie A. O. Keim (Mrs. Randolph De B. Keim), of Connecticut; Louise Ward McAllister, of New York; Effie Ream Osborne (Mrs. Frank Stuart Osborne), of Illinois; Marie Devereux, of Washington, District of Columbia; Belinda O. Wilbour (Mrs. Joshua Wilbour), of Rhode Island; Georgina E. Shippen (Mrs. W. W. Shippen), of New Jersey; Julia K. Hogg (Mrs. N. B. Hogg), of Pennsylvania; Katherine C. Breckinridge (Mrs. Clifton R. Breckinridge), of Arkansas; Sara Isabella Hubbard (Mrs. Adolphus S. Hubbard), of California; Mary L. D. Putnam (Mrs. Charles E. Putnam), of Iowa; Delia Clayborne Buckner (Mrs. Simon B. Buckner), of Kentucky; Emily Marshall Eliot (Mrs. Samuel Eliot), of Massachusetts; Lucy Grey Henry (Mrs. William Wirt Henry), of Virginia; Elizabeth Blair Lee, of Maryland, Mrs. Francis P. Burrows (Mrs. Julius C. Burrows), Mrs. Mary H. McMillan (Mrs. James McMillan), Mrs. Emma Gregory Hull (Mrs. J. A. T. Hull), Mrs. Mary B. K. Washington (Mrs. Joseph Washington), and their associates and successors, are created a body corporate and politic, in the District of Columbia, by the name of The National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, for patriotic, historical, and educational purposes, to perpetuate the memory and spirit of the men and women who achieved American independence, by the acquisition and protection of historical spots and the erection of monuments; by the encouragement of historical research in relation to the Revolution and the publication of its results; by the preservation of documents and relics, and of the records of the individual services of Revolutionary soldiers and patriots, and by the promotion of celebrations of all patriotic anniversaries; to carry out the injunction of Washington, in his farewell address to the American people, ””to promote, as an object of primary importance, institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge,““ thus developing an enlightened public opinion and affording to young and old such advantages as shall develop in them the largest capacity for performing the duties of American citizens; to cherish, maintain, and extend the institutions of American freedom; to foster true patriotism and love of country, and to aid in securing for mankind all the blessings of liberty.
