  (a) Composition
     The governing body of the corporation shall be a national executive committee consisting of the president, the last past president, three vice presidents, three junior vice presidents, three national executive committeemen, and the executive director. Each of such persons constituting the national executive committee, except the executive director, shall have one vote upon all matters determined by the committee.
  (b) Election of national officers; tenure; appointments
     The national officers of the corporation shall be elected at an annual national convention and shall hold office for one year or until their successors have been duly elected and qualified, except the executive director, the national treasurer, and the national public relations officer, who shall be appointed by the national executive committee. In the event of the death, inability to serve, or resignation of any member of the national executive committee, other than the last past president or the president, the vacancy shall be filled by the existing members of the national executive committee. Any person appointed by the committee to fill a vacancy shall serve until the next national convention when his successor shall be elected for the unexpired term, if any, caused by the vacancy. The national vice president of the same service as the president shall assume the duties and have the powers of the president in the event of his death, inability to serve, resignation, or absence.
  (c) Composition of national convention
     The national convention shall be composed of delegates elected by the various departments.
  (d) Composition of initial national executive committee
     The present national executive committee is composed of the following: Colonel Clarence E. Barnes, Military Intelligence Reserve, Guthrie, Oklahoma; Colonel William H. Neblett, United States Air Force Reserve, 815 Fifteenth Street Northwest, Washington, District of Columbia; Colonel Henry G. Nulton, Infantry Reserve, 2 Broad Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey; Commander John P. Bracken, United States Naval Reserve, 2107 Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Building, Philadelphia 9, Pennsylvania; Colonel Morris J. Brummer, United States Air Force Reserve, 2017 Mariposa Street, Fresno, California; Colonel Horace B. Hanson, Junior, Corps of Engineers Reserve, 700 Eighth Terrace, West Birmingham 4, Alabama; Captain Robert A. Hall, United States Marine Corps Reserve, 4229 Emerson Street, Dallas, Texas; Captain Milton Zacharias, United States Air Force Reserve, 241 North Broadview, Wichita, Kansas; Brigadier General Donald B. Adams, Organized Reserve Corps, 391 Beachmont Drive, New Rochelle, New York; Captain Jesse Draper, United States Naval Reserve, Grant Building, Atlanta, Georgia; Captain Richard L. Wynes, United States Air Force Reserve, 2360 Coates Street, Dubuque, Iowa; and Brigadier General E. A. Evans, Organized Reserve Corps, 6336 Thirty-first Place Northwest, Washington, District of Columbia.
  (e) Voting
     In conducting the official business of any department or chapter each active member of such department or chapter shall have one vote.
