  (a) Composition of initial board
     Upon the enactment of this chapter the membership of the initial board of directors of the corporation shall consist of the following persons:
     R. Wilton Billstein, Woodbury, New Jersey;
     Igor Buketoff, Fort Wayne, Indiana;
     Mrs. Ronald A. Dougan, Beloit, Wisconsin;
     Mrs. J. W. Graham, Sioux City, Iowa;
     Howard Harrington, Detroit, Michigan;
     William Herring, Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
     Harold Kendrick, New Haven, Connecticut;
     Robert MacIntyre, Birmingham, Alabama;
     Thomas Perry, Junior, Boston, Massachusetts;
     Mrs. H. W. Roberts, Dallas, Texas;
     Mrs. Jouett Shouse, Washington, District of Columbia;
     Alan Watrous, Dallas, Texas;
     John S. Edwards, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;
     Mrs. Fred Lazarus III, Cincinnati, Ohio;
     Charles W. Bonner, Fresno, California;
     Alfred Connable, Kalamazoo, Michigan;
     Victor Feldbrill, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada;
     Mrs. Gerald S. Greene, West Hartford, Connecticut;
     Mrs. G. Robert Herberger, Scottsdale, Arizona;
     Thomas Iannaccone, Rochester, New York;
     Dr. Richard Lert, Hollywood, California;
     Mrs. Fitzgerald Parker, Nashville, Tennessee;
     Mrs. Leo R. Pflaum, Wayzata, Minnesota;
     Miss Helen Ryan, Orlando, Florida;
     George Szell, Cleveland, Ohio;
     Jackson Wiley, Springfield, Ohio;
     George Irwin, Quincy, Illinois;
     R. H. Wangerin, Louisville, Kentucky.
  (b) Composition of subsequent boards; tenure
     Thereafter, the board of directors of the corporation shall consist of such number, shall be selected in such manner (including the filling of vacancies), and shall serve for such term as may be prescribed in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
  (c) Governing period; duties
     The board of directors shall be the governing board of the corporation and, during the intervals between the meetings of members, shall be responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation and for the control of all contributed funds as may be raised by the corporation.
