   The following persons, citizens of the United States and members of the executive council of the unincorporated association known as the American Society of International law, to wit: Manley O. Hudson, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, president of the said society; Dean G. Acheson, of Washington, District of Columbia, honorary president of the same; George A. Finch, of Chevy Chase, Maryland; Edwin D. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Philip C. Jessup, of New York, New York; vice presidents of the same; Philip Marshall Brown, of Washington, District of Columbia; Frederic R. Coudert, of New York, New York; William C. Dennis, of Richmond, Indiana; Charles G. Fenwick, of Washington, District of Columbia; Cordell Hull, of Washington, District of Columbia; Charles Cheney Hyde, of New York, New York; Robert H. Jackson, of McLean, Virginia; Arthur K. Kuhn, of New York, New York; George C. Marshall, of Leesburg, Virginia; Henry L. Stimson, of New York, New York; Elbert D. Thomas, of Salt Lake City, Utah; Charles Warren, of Washington, District of Columbia; George Grafton Wilson, of Cambridge, Massachusetts; and Lester H. Woolsey, of Chevy Chase, Maryland; honorary vice presidents of the said society; Edward Dumbauld, of Uniontown, Pennsylvania, secretary; and Edgar Turlington, of Chevy Chase, Maryland, treasurer of the same; Edward W. Allen, of Seattle, Washington; Mary Agnes Brown, of Washington, District of Columbia; Florence Brush, of Bronxville, New York; Kenneth S. Carlston, of Urbana, Illinois; Ben M. Cherrington, of Denver, Colorado; Percy E. Corbett, of New Haven Connecticut; Willard B. Cowles, of Lincoln, Nebraska; William S. Culbertson, of Washington, District of Columbia; John S. Dickey, of Hanover, New Hampshire; Alwyn V. Freeman, of Los Angeles, California; Ernest A. Gross, of Manhasset, New York; Stanley K. Hornbeck, of Washington, District of Columbia! A. Brunson MacChesney, of Chicago, Illinois; William Manger, of Washington, District of Columbia; Charles E. Martin, of Seattle, Washington; John Brown Mason, of Oberlin, Ohio; Myres S. McDougal, of New Haven, Connecticut; Hans J. Morgenthau, of Chicago, Illinois; Durward V. Sandifer, of Chevy Chase, Maryland; Francis B. Sayre, of Washington, District of Columbia; Carl B. Spaeth, of Palo Alto, California; Robert B. Stewart, of Medford, Massachusetts! and Albert C. F. Westphal, of Albuquerque, New Mexico; and such other persons as are now members of the said society, and their successors, are created and declared to be a body corporate, by the name of The American Society of International Law.
