  (a) Name, style, and title; perpetual succession
     Mrs. Rebecca D. Lowe, Atlanta, Georgia; Mrs. Dimies T. S. Denison, New York, New York; Miss Margaret J. Evans, Northfield, Minnesota; Mrs. Emma A. Fox, Detroit, Michigan; Mrs. George W. Kendrick, junior, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Mrs. Emma M. Van Vechten, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Mrs. George H. Noyes, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Mrs. Edward L. Buchwalter, Springfield, Ohio; Mrs. William J. Christie, Butte, Montana; Mrs. William T. Coad, Rapid City, South Dakota; Mrs. Laura Rockwell Priddy, Wichita, Kansas; Mrs. Frank Sherwin Streeter, Concord, New Hampshire; Mrs. Anna D. West, Somerville, Massachusetts; Mrs. Charles W. Fairbanks, Indiana; Mrs. Lucia E. Blount, Washington, District of Columbia; Mrs. Ralph Trautman, New York; Mrs. John L. McNeil, Colorado; Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood, Washington, District of Columbia; Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Indiana; Mrs. J. C. Croly, New York; Miss Mary V. Temple, Tennessee; Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst, California; Mrs. Kate Tannett Woods, Massachusetts; Mrs. Julia Plato Harvey, Illinois; Mrs. Jane O. Cooper, Colorado; Mrs. Harriet H. Robinson, Massachusetts; Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin, Illinois; Mrs. Mary E. Mumford, Pennsylvania; Mrs. C. P. Barnes, Kentucky; Mrs. Philip N. Moore, Missouri; Mrs. Alice Ives Breed, Massachusetts; Mrs. Frank Trumbull, Colorado; Miss Annie Laws, Ohio; Mrs. Sarah S. Platt-Decker, Colorado; Mrs. J. C. Royle, Utah; Josephine Bates, Mary Rogers, Octavia W. Bates, Fanny Purdy Palmer, Julia Ward Howe, Cordelia I. Sterling, Katherine Nobles, Mary D. Steele, and their associates and successors, are hereby created a body corporate and politic, of the District of Columbia, by the name, style, and title of the General Federation of Women“s Clubs, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
  (b) Tax exempt status
     The General Federation of Women“s Clubs shall be organized and operated exclusively for charitable and educational purposes within the meaning of section 501(c)(3) of title 26 and shall otherwise comply with any requirements for classification as an exempt organization under such section. Said charitable purposes shall be achieved through volunteer efforts on the part of the membership of the General Federation of Women“s Clubs, specifically including arts programs, conservation programs, educational programs, homelife programs, international affairs, public affairs programs advancing information regarding public affairs, and community improvement programs.
  (c) Use of assets on dissolution
     In the event of the dissolution of the General Federation of Women“s Clubs, its board of directors shall liquidate and distribute its assets to organizations qualified as exempt organizations under section 501(c)(3) of title 26 with purposes similar to those of the General Federation of Women“s Clubs.
