  (a) Composition of initial board
     Upon enactment of this chapter the membership of the initial board of directors of the corporation shall consist of the present members of the board of directors of the National Safety Council, Inc., referred to in section 478 of this title, or such of them as may then be living and are qualified directors of that corporation, to wit–E. F. du Pont, Wilmington, Delaware; Franklin M. Kreml, Evanston, Illinois; A. F. Allen, Dallas, Texas; J. I. Banash, West Los Angeles, California; William B. Barton, Washington, District of Columbia; C. W. Bergquist, Indianapolis, Indiana; R. A. L. Bogan, Chicago, Illinois; Norman E. Borgerson, Lansing, Michigan; Harry H. Brainerd, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Fred W. Braun, Wausau, Wisconsin; Theo Brown, Moline, Illinois; E. J. Buhner, Louisville, Kentucky; Alfred W. Cantwell, Washington, District of Columbia; Ray Carr, Portland, Oregon; Jesse Clark, Chicago, Illinois; Reginald M. Cleveland, New York, New York; William L. Connolly, Washington, District of Columbia; Doctor B. L. Corbett, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Charles R. Cos, New York, New York; Ernest G. Cox, Washington, District of Columbia; R. S. Damon, Kansas City, Missouri; Ned H. Dearborn, Chicago, Illinois; J. Dewey Dorsett, New York, New York; E. F. du Pont, Wilmington, Delaware; Martin P. Durkin, Washington, District of Columbia; Wallace Falvey, Boston, Massachusetts; Kirk Fox, Des Moines, Iowa; C. H. Gallaway, Southbridge, Massachusetts; George F. Getz, Junior, Chicago, Illinois; Gordon C. Graham, Detroit, Michigan; Howard Gramlich, Chicago, Illinois; W. Earl Hall, Mason City, Iowa; R. A. Harschnek, Chicago, Illinois; O. R. Hartwig, Portland, Oregon; Doctor Herold C. Hunt, Chicago, Illinois; Harold P. Jackson, Newark, New Jersey; George A. Jacoby, Detroit, Michigan; Mrs. George W. Jaqua, Winchester, Indiana; Joseph M. Kaplan, Los Angeles, California; E. W. Kempton, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Mrs. Fred W. Knight, Cartersville, Georgia; Franklin M. Kreml, Evanston, Illinois; Walter G. Legge, New York, New York; Boyd Lewis, New York, New York; Thomas H. MacDonald, College Station, Texas; Miss Marion E. Martin, Augusta, Maine; I. W. Millard, Danville, Illinois; Harry M. Moses, Washington, District of Columbia; D. E. Mumford, New York, New York; Hallie L. Myers, Indianapolis, Indiana; Guy L. Noble, Chicago, Illinois; Henry E. North, San Francisco, California; Clifton W. Phalen, Detroit, Michigan; Harry L. Powell, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Harry Read, Washington, District of Columbia; A. V. Rohweder, Duluth, Minnesota; Robert T. Ross, Dearborn, Michigan; Doctor K. Frances Scott, Northampton, Massachusetts; Honorable Lee E. Skeel, Cleveland, Ohio; Robert R. Snodgrass, Atlanta, Georgia; Leslie J. Sorenson, Chicago, Illinois; Doctor H. J. Stack, New York, New York; J. C. Stennett, Chicago, Illinois; W. A. Stewart, Southbridge, Massachusetts; Miss Judith Waller, Chicago, Illinois; Mrs. George Welles, Junior, Duluth, Minnesota; Doctor George M. Wheatley, New York, New York; E. C. Woodward, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and Doctor William P. Yant, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
  (b) Composition of subsequent boards; tenure
     Thereafter, the board of directors of the corporation shall consist of such number (not less than fifteen), shall be selected in such manner (including the filling of vacancies), and shall serve for such term as may be prescribed in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
  (c) Duties
     The board of directors shall be the governing board of the corporation and shall, during the intervals between corporation meetings, be responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. The board shall be responsible for all finance except as provided for in section 469 of this title.
