  (a) Functions
     The Corporation shall have responsibility for the overall supervision, oversight, and control of the Civilian Marksmanship Program, pursuant to the transfer of the program under subsection (d) of this section, including the performance of the following:
    (1) The instruction of citizens of the United States in marksmanship.
    (2) The promotion of practice and safety in the use of firearms, including the conduct of matches and competitions in the use of those firearms.
    (3) The award to competitors of trophies, prizes, badges, and other insignia.
    (4) The provision of security and accountability for all firearms, ammunition, and other equipment under the custody and control of the Corporation.
    (5) The issue, loan, or sale of firearms, ammunition, supplies, and appliances under section 5504 of this title.
    (6) The procurement of necessary supplies, appliances, clerical services, other related services, and labor to carry out the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
  (b) Priority for youth activities
     In carrying out the Civilian Marksmanship Program, the Corporation shall give priority to activities that benefit firearms safety, training, and competition for youth and that reach as many youth participants as possible.
  (c) Access to surplus property
    (1) The Corporation may obtain surplus property and supplies from the Defense Reutilization Marketing Service to carry out the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
    (2) Any transfer of property and supplies to the Corporation under paragraph (1) shall be made without cost to the Corporation.
  (d) Transfer of Civilian Marksmanship Program to Corporation
    (1) The Secretary of the Army shall provide for the transition of the Civilian Marksmanship Program, as defined in section 4308(e) of title 10 (as such section was in effect on the day before February 10, 1996), from conduct by the Department of the Army to conduct by the Corporation. The transition shall be completed not later than September 30, 1996.
    (2) To carry out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide such assistance and take such action as is necessary to maintain the viability of the program and to maintain the security of firearms, ammunition, and other property that are transferred or reserved for transfer to the Corporation under section 5505, 5506, or 5521 of this title.
