  (a) Establishment and membership
     The Foundation shall have a governing Board of Directors (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the ””Board““), which shall consist of 9 Directors, each of whom shall be a United States citizen and at least 6 of whom must be knowledgeable or experienced in film production, distribution, preservation, or restoration, including 2 who shall be sitting members of the National Film Preservation Board. These 6 members of the Board shall, to the extent practicable, represent diverse points of views from the film community, including motion picture producers, creative artists, nonprofit and public archivists, historians, film critics, theater owners, and laboratory and university personnel. The Librarian of Congress (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the ””Librarian““) shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of the Board. Appointment to the Board shall not constitute employment by, or the holding of an office of, the United States for the purpose of any Federal law.
  (b) Appointment and terms
     Within 90 days after October 11, 1996, the Librarian shall appoint the Directors of the Board. Each Director shall be appointed for a term of 4 years. A vacancy on the Board shall be filled, within 60 days after the vacancy occurs, in the manner in which the original appointment was made. No individual may serve more than 2 consecutive terms as a Director.
  (c) Chair
     The initial Chair shall be appointed by the Librarian from the membership of the Board for a 2-year term, and thereafter shall be appointed and removed in accordance with the Foundation“s bylaws.
  (d) Quorum
     A majority of the current membership of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
  (e) Meetings
     The Board shall meet at the call of the Librarian or the Chair at least once a year. If a Director misses 3 consecutive regularly scheduled meetings, that individual may be removed from the Board by the Librarian, and that vacancy shall be filled in accordance with subsection (b) of this section.
  (f) Reimbursement of expenses
     Members of the Board shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for the actual and necessary traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of the duties of the Foundation.
  (g) General powers
    (1) Organization of Foundation
       The Board may complete the organization of the Foundation by–
      (A) appointing, removing, and replacing officers, except as provided for in paragraph (2)(B);
      (B) adopting a constitution and bylaws consistent with the purposes of the Foundation and the provisions of this chapter; and
      (C) undertaking such other acts as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
    (2) Limitation on appointment of employees
       The following limitations apply with respect to the appointment of employees of the Foundation:
      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), employees of the Foundation shall be appointed, removed, and replaced by the Secretary of the Board. All employees (including the Secretary of the Board) shall be appointed and removed without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no individual so appointed may receive pay in excess of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS–15 of the General Schedule. Neither the Board, nor any of the employees of the Foundation, including the Secretary of the Board, shall be construed to be employees of the Library of Congress.
      (B) The first employee appointed shall be the Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall be appointed, and may be removed by, the Librarian.
      (C) The Secretary of the Board shall–
        (i) serve as its executive director, and
        (ii) be knowledgeable and experienced in matters relating to film preservation and restoration activities, financial management, and fund-raising.
