  (a) Regional research laboratories
     The Secretary is authorized and directed to establish, equip, and maintain four regional research laboratories, one in each major farm producing area, and, at such laboratories, to conduct researches into and to develop new scientific, chemical, and technical uses and new and extended markets and outlets for farm commodities and products and byproducts thereof. Such research and development shall be devoted primarily to those farm commodities in which there are regular or seasonal surpluses, and their products and byproducts.
  (b) Acquisition of land for laboratories; donations
     For the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire land and interests therein, and to accept in the name of the United States donations of any property, real or personal, to any laboratory established pursuant to this section, and to utilize voluntary or uncompensated services at such laboratories. Donations to any one of such laboratories shall not be available for use by any other of such laboratories.
  (c) Cooperation with governmental agencies, associations, etc.
     In carrying out the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary is authorized and directed to cooperate with other departments or agencies of the Federal Government, States, State agricultural experiment stations, and other State agencies and institutions, counties, municipalities, business or other organizations, corporations, associations, universities, scientific societies, and individuals, upon such terms and conditions as he may prescribe.
  (d) Appropriation for purposes of subsection (a)
     To carry out the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary is authorized to utilize in each fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1938, a sum not to exceed $4,000,000 of the funds appropriated pursuant to section 1391 of this title, or section 590T3oK of title 16, for such fiscal year. The Secretary shall allocate one-fourth of such sum annually to each of the four laboratories established pursuant to this section.
  (e) Repealed. Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1076, ยง 1(3), 68 Stat. 966
  (f) Appropriation to Secretary of Commerce
     There is allocated to the Secretary of Commerce for each fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1938, out of funds appropriated for such fiscal year pursuant to section 1391 of this title, or section 590T3oK of title 16 the sum of $1,000,000 to be expended for the promotion of the sale of farm commodities and products thereof in such manner as he shall direct. Of the sum allocated under this subsection to the Secretary of Commerce for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1938, $100,000 shall be devoted to making a survey and investigation of the cause or causes of the reduction in exports of agricultural commodities from the United States, in order to ascertain methods by which the sales in foreign countries of basic agricultural commodities produced in the United States may be increased.
  (g) Duty of Secretary
     It shall be the duty of the Secretary to use available funds to stimulate and widen the use of all farm commodities in the United States and to increase in every practical way the flow of such commodities and the products thereof into the markets of the world.
