  (a) Conditions for permission from Secretary; false statements; exceptions
    (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law–
      (A)        (i) The Secretary, if the Secretary determines that it will not impair the effective operation of the tobacco marketing quota or price support program, may permit the owner and operator of any farm for which a tobacco acreage allotment (other than a Burley, Flue-cured, dark air-cured, Fire-cured, Virginia sun-cured and cigar-binder, type 54 or 55 tobacco acreage allotment) is established under this chapter to lease and transfer all or any part of such allotment to any other owner or operator of a farm in the same county for use in such county on a farm having a current tobacco allotment of the same kind.
        (ii) The Secretary shall, only with respect to the 1984 through 1986 crops of Flue-cured tobacco, permit the owner of a farm to which a Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotment or quota is assigned under this chapter to lease and transfer all or any part of such allotment or quota to any other owner or operator of a farm in the same county for use in such county on a farm having a current Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotment or quota except that for the 1985 and 1986 crops such lease and transfer shall be permitted only if (except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2)(A)) the parties to the lease file a copy of the lease agreement with the county committee for the county in which the farms are located, together with a written statement certifying that none of the consideration for the lease has been or will be paid to the lessor, either directly or indirectly in any form including a loan by the lessee to the lessor, the endorsement of a note by the lessee for the lessor, or any other similar arrangement which represents the anticipated income for the lease, prior to the marketing of the tobacco produced under the lease and that the lease and transfer is otherwise in compliance with the provisions of this section. Beginning with the 1985 crop, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations establishing, insofar as is reasonably practicable, a similar requirement providing that none of the consideration for the lease of any Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotment and quota may be paid to the lessor prior to the marketing of the tobacco produced under the lease. The Secretary shall also require that any seller of a Flue-cured tobacco allotment and quota grant to the buyer an option to make payment therefore in equal annual installments payable each fall for a period not to exceed five years from the year in which the sale is made. With respect to the 1987 and subsequent crops of Flue-cured tobacco, the Secretary shall not permit the lease and transfer of Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotments and quotas.
      (B) If, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, the county committee determines that the lessee or the lessor of a Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotment or quota knowingly made a false statement in the written statement filed under subparagraph (A), (i) in the case of a false statement knowingly made by the lessee, the lease agreement for purposes of the Flue-cured tobacco marketing quota program with respect to the lessee“s farm shall be considered null and void as of the date approved by the county committee or (ii) in the case of a false statement knowingly made by the lessor, the Flue-cured tobacco allotment and quota next established for the farm of the lessor shall be reduced by the percentage which the leased allotment or quota was of the total Flue-cured tobacco allotment or quota for the farm. Notice of any determination made by the county committee under the preceding provision shall be mailed as soon as practicable to the lessee or lessor involved. If the lessee or lessor is dissatisfied with such determination, the lessee or lessor may request, within fifteen days after notice of such determination is mailed, a review of such determination by a local review committee under section 1363 of this title.
    (2) Repealed. Pub. L. 98–180, title II, § 206(b)(1), Nov. 29, 1983, 97 Stat. 1147.
  (b) Term of years; terms and conditions
     Any lease may be made for such term of years not to exceed five as the parties thereto agree, and on such other terms and conditions, except as otherwise provided in this section, as the parties thereto agree.
  (c) Filing with county committees; calculation of normal yield for transfer
     The lease and transfer or sale and transfer of any allotment shall not be effective until a copy of the lease or sale agreement, as the case may be, is filed with and determined by the county committee of the county in which the farms involved are located to be in compliance with the provisions of this section. The transfer shall be approved acre for acre.
  (d) Allotments for other years unaffected; inclusion of amount in transferors“ plantings; referendum voting rights
     The lease and transfer of any part of a tobacco acreage allotment determined for a farm shall not affect the allotment for the farm from which such acreage allotment is transferred or the farm to which it is transferred, except with respect to the crop year specified in the lease. The amount of acreage allotment which is leased from a farm shall be considered for purpose of determining future allotments to have been planted to tobacco on the farm from which such allotment is transferred and the production pursuant to the lease and transfer shall not be taken into account in establishing allotments for subsequent years for the farm to which such allotment is transferred. The lessor shall be considered to have been engaged in the production of tobacco for the purpose of eligibility to vote in the referendum.
  (e) Limitation on amount of acreage allotment; ””tillable cropland““ defined
    (1) The total acreage allotted to any farm after the transfer by lease or sale of tobacco acreage allotment to the farm under the provisions of this section shall not exceed 50 per centum of the acreage of cropland in the farm. In the case of cigar-filler tobacco types 42, 43, or 44, not more than 10 acres of allotment may be leased and transferred to any farm.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to flue-cured tobacco.
    (3) For purposes of this section, the term ””tillable cropland““ means cleared land that can be planted to crops without unusual cultivation or other preparation.
  (f) Regulations
     The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as he considers necessary for carrying out the provisions of this section.
  (g) Sale of allotment or quota by one active Flue-cured tobacco producer to another; definition
    (1) The Secretary shall permit the owner of any farm to which a Flue-cured tobacco allotment or quota is assigned to sell, for use on another farm in the same county, all or any part of such allotment or quota to any person who is or intends to become an active Flue-cured tobacco producer. For purposes of this section, the term ””active Flue-cured tobacco producer““ means any person who shared in the risk of producing a crop of Flue-cured tobacco in not less than one of the three years preceding the year involved, or any person who certifies to the Secretary, in such form and manner as the Secretary shall by regulation prescribe, his or her intent to become a Flue-cured tobacco producer.
    (2) For purposes of this section, a person shall be considered to have shared in the risk of producing a crop of Flue-cured tobacco if–
      (A) the investment of such person in the production of such crop is not less than 20 per centum of the proceeds of the sale of such crop;
      (B) the amount of such person“s return on such investment is dependent solely on the sale price of such crop; and
      (C) such person may not receive any of such return before the sale of such crop.
    (3) T4Transfers allowed by referendum.–
      (A) T4ReferendumK.–On the request of at least 25 percent of the active flue-cured tobacco producers within a State, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum of the active flue-cured tobacco producers within the State to determine whether the producers favor or oppose permitting the sale of a flue-cured tobacco allotment or quota from a farm in a State to any other farm in the State.
      (B) T4ApprovalK.–If the Secretary determines that a majority of the active flue-cured tobacco producers voting in the referendum approves permitting the sale of a flue-cured tobacco allotment or quota from a farm in the State to any other farm in the State, the Secretary shall permit the sale of a flue-cured tobacco allotment or quota from a farm in the State to any other farm in the State.
  (h) \1\N Sale or forfeiture of allotment or quota; notice and opportunity for hearing; determination; review
    (1) Any person who–
      (A) acquires any Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotment or quota by purchase under subsection (g) of this section; and
      (B) with respect to any crop of Flue-cured tobacco planted after the date of such acquisition, fails to share in the risk of producing tobacco under such allotment or quota in the manner specified in subsection (g)(2) of this section;
         shall sell such allotment or quota before the expiration of the eighteen-month period beginning on July 1 of the year in which such crop is planted, or such allotment or quota shall be subject to forfeiture under the procedure specified in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
    (2) Any person who–
      (A) acquires any Flue-cured tobacco acreage allotment or quota by purchase under subsection (g) of this section; and
      (B) disposes of an acreage of tillable cropland (as defined in subsection (e)(2) of this section) which results in the total acreage of Flue-cured tobacco allotted to such person“s farm exceeding 50 per centum of the tillable cropland owned by such person;
         shall, before July 1 of the year after the year of such disposal, take steps which will result in the total acreage of Flue-cured tobacco allotted to such farm not exceeding 50 per centum of the tillable cropland owned by such person. If such person fails to take such steps, then any such excess allotment or quota shall be subject to forfeiture under the procedure specified in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
    (3)      (A) If, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the appropriate county committee determines that any person knowingly failed to comply with paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, then such person shall forfeit to the Secretary the allotment or quota specified in such paragraph. Any allotment or quota so forfeited shall be reallocated by such county committee for use by active Flue-cured tobacco producers (as defined in subsection (g)(1) of this section) in the county involved.
      (B) Notice of such determination shall be mailed, as soon as practicable, to such person. If such person is dissatisfied with such determination, then such person may request, within fifteen days after notice of such determination is so mailed, a review of such determination by a local review committee under section 1363 of this title.
  (h) \1\ Transfer authority
    (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may permit, after June 30 of any crop year, the lease and transfer of flue-cured tobacco quota assigned to a farm if–
      (A) the planted acreage of flue-cured tobacco on the farm to which the quota is assigned is determined by the Secretary to be equal to or greater than 90 percent of the farm“s acreage allotment, or the planted acreage is determined to be sufficient to produce the farm marketing quota under average conditions; and
      (B) the farm“s expected production of flue-cured tobacco is less than 80 percent of the farm“s effective marketing quota as a result of a natural disaster condition.
    (2) Any lease and transfer of quota under this paragraph may be made to any other farm within the same State in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary.
