   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter–
  (1) The farm marketing quota for any crop of wheat shall be the actual production of the acreage planted to such crop of wheat on the farm less the farm marketing excess. The farm marketing excess shall be an amount equal to twice the projected farm yield multiplied by the number of acres of such crop of wheat on the farm in excess of the farm acreage allotment for such crop unless the producer, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary and within the time prescribed therein, establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary the actual production of such crop of wheat on the farm. If such actual production is so established, the farm marketing excess shall be an amount equal to the actual production of the number of acres of wheat on the farm in excess of the farm acreage allotment for such crop. In determining the farm marketing quota and farm marketing excess, any acreage of wheat remaining after the date prescribed by the Secretary for the disposal of excess acres of wheat shall be included as acreage of wheat on the farm, and the production thereof shall be appraised in such manner as the Secretary determines will provide a reasonably accurate estimate of such production. Any acreage of wheat disposed of in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary prior to such date as may be prescribed by the Secretary shall be excluded in determining the farm marketing quota and farm marketing excess. Self-seeded (volunteer) wheat shall be included in determining the acreage of wheat. Marketing quotas for any marketing year shall be in effect with respect to wheat harvested in the calendar year in which such marketing year begins notwithstanding that the wheat is marketed prior to the beginning of such marketing year.
  (2) Whenever farm marketing quotas are in effect with respect to any crop of wheat, the producers on a farm shall be subject to a penalty on the farm marketing excess of wheat at a rate per bushel equal to 65 per centum of the parity price per bushel of wheat as of May 1 of the calendar year in which the crop is harvested. Each producer having an interest in the crop of wheat on any farm for which a farm marketing excess of wheat is determined shall be jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of the penalty on the farm marketing excess.
  (3) The farm marketing excess for wheat shall be regarded as available for marketing, and the penalty and the storage amount or amounts to be delivered to the Secretary of the commodity shall be computed upon twice the normal production of the excess acreage. Where, upon the application of the producer for an adjustment of penalty or of storage, it is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the actual production of the excess acreage is less than twice the normal production thereof, the difference between the amount of the penalty or storage as computed upon the basis of twice the normal production and as computed upon the basis of actual production shall be returned to or allowed the producer. The Secretary shall issue regulations under which the farm marketing excess of the commodity for the farm may be stored or delivered to him. Upon failure to store or deliver to the Secretary the farm marketing excess within such time as may be determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, the penalty computed as aforesaid shall be paid by the producer. Any wheat delivered to the Secretary hereunder shall become the property of the United States and shall be disposed of by the Secretary for relief purposes in the United States or in foreign countries or in such other manner as he shall determine will divert it from the normal channels of trade and commerce.
  (4) Until the producers on any farm store, deliver to the Secretary, or pay the penalty on, the farm marketing excess of any crop of wheat, the entire crop of wheat produced on the farm and any subsequent crop of wheat subject to marketing quotas in which the producer has an interest shall be subject to a lien in favor of the United States for the amount of the penalty.
  (5) The penalty upon wheat stored shall be paid by the producer at the time, and to the extent, of any depletion in the amount of the commodity so stored, except depletion resulting from some cause beyond the control of the producer.
  (6) Whenever the planted acreage of the then current crop of wheat on any farm is less than the farm acreage allotment for such commodity, the total amount of the commodity from any previous crops required to be stored in order to postpone or avoid payment of penalty shall be reduced by that amount which is equal to the normal production of the number of acres by which the farm acreage allotment exceeds the planted acreage. The provisions of section 1326(b) and (c) of this title shall be applicable also to wheat.
  (7) Until the farm marketing excess of wheat is stored or delivered to the Secretary or the penalty thereon is paid, each bushel of the commodity produced on the farm which is sold by the producer to any person within the United States shall be subject to the penalty as specified in paragraph (2) of this section. Such penalty shall be paid by the buyer, who may deduct an amount equivalent to the penalty from the price paid to the producer. If the buyer fails to collect such penalty, such buyer and all persons entitled to share in the wheat marketed from the farm or the proceeds thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for such penalty.
  (8) The marketing penalty for rice produced in the calendar year in which any marketing year begins (if beginning with or after the 1941–1942 marketing year) shall be at a rate equal to 50 per centum of the basic rate of the loan for cooperators for such marketing year under section 1302 of this title and this section.
  (9) Omitted.
  (10) The provisions of this section are amendatory of and supplementary to this chapter, and all provisions of law applicable in respect of marketing quotas and loans under such chapter as so amended and supplemented shall be applicable, but nothing in this section shall be construed to amend or repeal sections 1301(b)(6), 1323(b), or 1335(d) of this title.
  (11) The persons liable for the payment or collection of the penalty or any amount of wheat shall be liable also for interest thereon at the rate of 6 per centum per annum from the date the penalty becomes due until the date of payment of such penalty.
  (12) If marketing quotas for wheat are not in effect for any marketing year, all previous marketing quotas applicable to wheat shall be terminated, effective as of the first day of such marketing year. Such termination shall not abate any penalty previously incurred by a producer or relieve any buyer of the duty to remit penalties previously collected by him.
