  (a) In general
     At the time that an application for accreditation is received by the Secretary and annually thereafter, a laboratory seeking accreditation by the Secretary under the authority of this chapter, the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), or the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) shall pay to the Secretary a nonrefundable accreditation fee. All fees collected by the Secretary shall be credited to the account from which the expenses of the laboratory accreditation program are paid and, subject to subsection (e) of this section, shall be available immediately and remain available until expended to pay the expenses of the laboratory accreditation program.
  (b) Amount of fee
     The fee required under this section shall be established by the Secretary in an amount that will offset the cost of the laboratory accreditation programs administered by the Secretary under the statutory authorities set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) Reimbursement of expenses
     Each laboratory that is accredited under a statutory authority set forth in subsection (a) of this section or that has applied for accreditation under such authority shall reimburse the Secretary for reasonable travel and other expenses necessary to perform onsite inspections of the laboratory.
  (d) Adjustment of fees
     The Secretary may, on an annual basis, adjust the fees imposed under this section as necessary to support the full costs of the laboratory accreditation programs carried out under the statutory authorities set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
  (e) Appropriations prerequisite
     No fees collected under this section may be used to offset the cost of laboratory accreditation without appropriations made under subsection (f) of this section.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary for laboratory accreditation services under this section.
