  (a) Establishment, composition, and appointment of Board
     The management of the Corporation shall be vested in a Board subject to the general supervision of the Secretary. The Board shall consist of the manager of the Corporation, the Under Secretary of Agriculture responsible for the Federal crop insurance program, one additional Under Secretary of Agriculture (as designated by the Secretary of Agriculture), one person experienced in the crop insurance business who is not otherwise employed by the Federal Government, and three active farmers who are not otherwise employed by the Federal Government. The Board shall be appointed by, and hold office at the pleasure of, the Secretary. The Secretary shall not be a member of the Board. The Secretary, in appointing the three active farmers who are not otherwise employed by the Federal Government, shall ensure that such members are policyholders and are from different geographic areas of the United States, in order that diverse agricultural interests in the United States are at all times represented on the Board.
  (b) Vacancies
     Vacancies in the Board so long as there shall be four members in office shall not impair the powers of the Board to execute the functions of the Corporation, and four of the members in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the Board.
  (c) Compensation
     The Directors of the Corporation who are employed in the Department shall receive no additional compensation for their services as such Directors but may be allowed necessary traveling and subsistence expenses when engaged in business of the Corporation, outside of the District of Columbia. The Directors of the Corporation who are not employed by the Federal Government shall be paid such compensation for their services as Directors as the Secretary shall determine, but such compensation shall not exceed the daily equivalent of the rate prescribed for grade GS–18 under section 5332 of title 5 when actually employed, and actual necessary traveling and subsistence expenses, or a per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence expenses, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5 for persons in Government service employed intermittently, when on the business of the Corporation away from their homes or regular places of business.
  (d) Manager of Corporation
     The manager of the Corporation shall be its chief executive officer, with such power and authority as may be conferred by the Board. The manager shall be appointed by, and hold office at the pleasure of, the Secretary.
