  (a) Purpose
     The purpose of this section is to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a demonstration program under which agricultural producers are provided–
    (1) technical assistance, consisting of engineering services, applied research, scale production, and similar services, to enable the agricultural producers to establish businesses to produce value-added agricultural commodities or products;
    (2) assistance in marketing, market development, and business planning; and
    (3) organizational, outreach, and development assistance to increase the viability, growth, and sustainability of businesses that produce value-added agricultural commodities or products.
  (b) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Program
       The term ””Program““ means the Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration Program established under subsection (c).
    (2) Secretary
       The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (c) Establishment of Program
     The Secretary shall establish a demonstration program, to be known as the ””Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration Program““ under which the Secretary shall–
    (1) make grants to assist eligible entities in establishing Agriculture Innovation Centers to enable agricultural producers to obtain the assistance described in subsection (a); and
    (2) provide assistance to eligible entities in establishing Agriculture Innovation Centers through the research and technical services of the Department of Agriculture.
  (d) Eligibility requirements
    (1) In general
       An entity shall be eligible for a grant and assistance described in subsection (c) to establish an Agriculture Innovation Center if–
      (A) the entity–
        (i) has provided services similar to the services described in subsection (a); or
        (ii) demonstrates the capability of providing such services;
      (B) the application of the entity for the grant and assistance includes a plan, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary, that outlines–
        (i) the support for the entity in the agricultural community;
        (ii) the technical and other expertise of the entity; and
        (iii) the goals of the entity for increasing and improving the ability of local agricultural producers to develop markets and processes for value-added agricultural commodities or products;
      (C) the entity demonstrates that adequate resources (in cash or in kind) are available, or have been committed to be made available, to the entity, to increase and improve the ability of local agricultural producers to develop markets and processes for value-added agricultural commodities or products; and
      (D) the Agriculture Innovation Center of the entity has a board of directors established in accordance with paragraph (2).
    (2) Board of directors
       Each Agriculture Innovation Center of an eligible entity shall have a board of directors composed of representatives of each of the following groups:
      (A) The 2 general agricultural organizations with the greatest number of members in the State in which the eligible entity is located.
      (B) The department of agriculture, or similar State department or agency, of the State in which the eligible entity is located.
      (C) Entities representing the 4 highest grossing commodities produced in the State, determined on the basis of annual gross cash sales.
  (e) Grants and assistance
    (1) In general
       Subject to subsection (i), under the Program, the Secretary shall make, on a competitive basis, annual grants to eligible entities.
    (2) Maximum amount of grants
       A grant under paragraph (1) shall be in an amount that does not exceed the lesser of–
      (A) $1,000,000; or
      (B) twice the dollar amount of the resources (in cash or in kind) that the eligible entity demonstrates are available, or have been committed to be made available, to the eligible entity in accordance with subsection (d)(1)(C).
    (3) Maximum number of grants
      (A) First fiscal year of Program
         In the first fiscal year of the Program, the Secretary shall make grants to not more than 5 eligible entities.
      (B) Second fiscal year of Program
         In the second fiscal year of the Program, the Secretary may make grants to–
        (i) the eligible entities to which grants were made under subparagraph (A); and
        (ii) not more than 10 additional eligible entities.
    (4) State limitation
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraph (B), in the first 3 fiscal years of the Program, the Secretary shall not make a grant under the Program to more than 1 entity in any 1 State.
      (B) Collaboration
         Nothing in subparagraph (A) precludes a recipient of a grant under the Program from collaborating with any other institution with respect to activities conducted using the grant.
  (f) Use of funds
     An eligible entity to which a grant is made under the Program may use the grant only for the following purposes (but only to the extent that the use is not described in section 1632a(d) of this title):
    (1) Applied research.
    (2) Consulting services.
    (3) Hiring of employees, at the discretion of the board of directors of the Agriculture Innovation Center of the eligible entity.
    (4) The making of matching grants, each of which shall be in an amount not to exceed $5,000, to agricultural producers, except that the aggregate amount of all such matching grants made by the eligible entity shall be not more than $50,000.
    (5) Legal services.
    (6) Any other related cost, as determined by the Secretary.
  (g) Research on effects on the agricultural sector
    (1) In general
       Of the amount made available under subsection (i) for each fiscal year, the Secretary shall use $300,000 to support research at a university concerning the effects of projects for value-added agricultural commodities or products on agricultural producers and the commodity markets.
    (2) Research elements
       Research under paragraph (1) shall systematically examine, using linked, long-term, global projections of the agricultural sector, the potential effects of projects described in subparagraph (A) \1\N on–
      (A) demand for agricultural commodities;
      (B) market prices;
      (C) farm income; and
      (D) Federal outlays on commodity programs.
  (h) Report to Congress
    (1) In general
       Not later than 3 years after the date on which the last of the first 10 grants is made under the Program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report on–
      (A) the effectiveness of the Program in improving and expanding the production of value-added agricultural commodities or products; and
      (B) the effects of the Program on the economic viability of agricultural producers.
    (2) Required elements
       The report under paragraph (1) shall–
      (A) include a description of the best practices and innovations found at each of the Agriculture Innovation Centers established under the Program; and
      (B) specify the number and type of activities assisted, and the type of assistance provided, under the Program.
        (i) Authorization of appropriations
           There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.
