  (a) Establishment
     The Secretary shall establish a program of live cattle price information reporting that will–
    (1) provide timely, accurate, and reliable market information;
    (2) facilitate more informed marketing decisions; and
    (3) promote competition in the cattle slaughtering industry.
  (b) General reporting provisions applicable to packers and the Secretary
    (1) In general
       Whenever the prices or quantities of cattle are required to be reported or published under this section, the prices or quantities shall be categorized so as to clearly delineate–
      (A) the prices or quantities, as applicable, of the cattle purchased in the domestic market; and
      (B) the prices or quantities, as applicable, of imported cattle.
    (2) Packer-owned cattle
       Information required under this section for packer-owned cattle shall include quantity and carcass characteristics, but not price.
  (c) Daily reporting
    (1) In general
       The corporate officers or officially designated representatives of each packer processing plant shall report to the Secretary at least twice each reporting day (including once not later than 10:00 a.m. Central Time and once not later than 2:00 p.m. Central Time) the following information for each cattle type:
      (A) The prices for cattle (per hundredweight) established on that day, categorized by–
        (i) type of purchase;
        (ii) the quantity of cattle purchased on a live weight basis;
        (iii) the quantity of cattle purchased on a dressed weight basis;
        (iv) a range of the estimated live weights of the cattle purchased;
        (v) an estimate of the percentage of the cattle purchased that were of a quality grade of choice or better; and
        (vi) any premiums or discounts associated with–
          (I) weight, grade, or yield; or
          (II) any type of purchase.
      (B) The quantity of cattle delivered to the packer (quoted in numbers of head) on that day, categorized by–
        (i) type of purchase;
        (ii) the quantity of cattle delivered on a live weight basis; and
        (iii) the quantity of cattle delivered on a dressed weight basis.
      (C) The quantity of cattle committed to the packer (quoted in numbers of head) as of that day, categorized by–
        (i) type of purchase;
        (ii) the quantity of cattle committed on a live weight basis; and
        (iii) the quantity of cattle committed on a dressed weight basis.
      (D) The terms of trade regarding the cattle, as applicable.
    (2) Publication
       The Secretary shall make the information available to the public not less frequently than three times each reporting day.
  (d) Weekly reporting
    (1) In general
       The corporate officers or officially designated representatives of each packer processing plant shall report to the Secretary, on the first reporting day of each week, not later than 9:00 a.m. Central Time, the following information applicable to the prior slaughter week:
      (A) The quantity of cattle purchased through a forward contract that were slaughtered.
      (B) The quantity of cattle delivered under a formula marketing arrangement that were slaughtered.
      (C) The quantity and carcass characteristics of packer-owned cattle that were slaughtered.
      (D) The quantity, basis level, and delivery month for all cattle purchased through forward contracts that were agreed to by the parties.
      (E) The range and average of intended premiums and discounts that are expected to be in effect for the current slaughter week.
    (2) Formula purchases
       The corporate officers or officially designated representatives of each packer processing plant shall report to the Secretary, on the first reporting day of each week, not later than 9:00 a.m. Central Time, the following information for cattle purchased through a formula marketing arrangement and slaughtered during the prior slaughter week:
      (A) The quantity (quoted in both numbers of head and hundredweights) of cattle.
      (B) The weighted average price paid for a carcass, including applicable premiums and discounts.
      (C) The range of premiums and discounts paid.
      (D) The weighted average of premiums and discounts paid.
      (E) The range of prices paid.
      (F) The aggregate weighted average price paid for a carcass.
      (G) The terms of trade regarding the cattle, as applicable.
    (3) Publication
       The Secretary shall make available to the public the information obtained under paragraphs (1) and (2) on the first reporting day of the current slaughter week, not later than 10:00 a.m. Central Time.
  (e) Regional reporting of cattle types
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall determine whether adequate data can be obtained on a regional basis for fed Holsteins and other fed dairy steers and heifers, cows, and bulls based on the number of packers required to report under this section.
    (2) Report
       Not later than 2 years after October 22, 1999, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report on the determination of the Secretary under paragraph (1).
