   In this subchapter:
  (1) Beef
     The term ””beef““ means meat produced from cattle (including veal).
  (2) Covered commodity
    (A) In general
       The term ””covered commodity““ means–
      (i) muscle cuts of beef, lamb, and pork;
      (ii) ground beef, ground lamb, and ground pork;
      (iii) farm-raised fish;
      (iv) wild fish;
      (v) a perishable agricultural commodity;
      (vi) peanuts; and \1\N
      (vii) meat produced from goats;
      (viii) chicken, in whole and in part;
      (ix) ginseng;
      (x) pecans; and
      (xi) macadamia nuts.
    (B) Exclusions
       The term ””covered commodity““ does not include an item described in subparagraph (A) if the item is an ingredient in a processed food item.
  (3) Farm-raised fish
     The term ””farm-raised fish““ includes–
    (A) farm-raised shellfish; and
    (B) fillets, steaks, nuggets, and any other flesh from a farm-raised fish or shellfish.
  (4) Food service establishment
     The term ””food service establishment““ means a restaurant, cafeteria, lunch room, food stand, saloon, tavern, bar, lounge, or other similar facility operated as an enterprise engaged in the business of selling food to the public.
  (5) Lamb
     The term ””lamb““ means meat, other than mutton, produced from sheep.
  (6) Perishable agricultural commodity; retailer
     The terms ””perishable agricultural commodity““ and ””retailer““ have the meanings given the terms in section 499a(b) of this title.
  (7) Pork
     The term ””pork““ means meat produced from hogs.
  (8) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Agricultural Marketing Service.
  (9) Wild fish
    (A) In general
       The term ””wild fish““ means naturally-born or hatchery-raised fish and shellfish harvested in the wild.
    (B) Inclusions
       The term ””wild fish““ includes a fillet, steak, nugget, and any other flesh from wild fish or shellfish.
    (C) Exclusions
       The term ””wild fish““ excludes net-pen aquacultural or other farm-raised fish.
