   As used in this chapter:
  (1) Administrator
     The term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
  (2) Agricultural commodity
     The term ””agricultural commodity““, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, includes any agricultural commodity or the products thereof produced in the United States, including wood and processed wood products, fish, and livestock as well as value-added, fortified, or high-value agricultural products. Effective beginning on October 1, 1991, for purposes of subchapter III of this chapter, a product of an agricultural commodity shall not be considered to be produced in the United States if it contains any ingredient that is not produced in the United States, if that ingredient is produced and is commercially available in the United States at fair and reasonable prices.
  (3) Appropriate committee of Congress
     The term ””appropriate committee of Congress““ means–
    (A) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate;
    (B) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and
    (C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
  (4) Cooperative
     The term ””cooperative““ means a private sector organization whose members own and control the organization and share in its services and its profits and that provides business services and outreach in cooperative development for its membership.
  (5) Developing country
     The term ””developing country““ means a country that has a shortage of foreign exchange earnings and has difficulty meeting all of its food needs through commercial channels.
  (6) Food security
     The term ””food security““ means access by all people at all times to sufficient food and nutrition for a healthy and productive life.
  (7) Nongovernmental organization
     The term ””nongovernmental organization““ means an organization that works at the local level to solve development problems in a foreign country in which the organization is located, except that the term does not include an organization that is primarily an agency or instrumentality of the government of the foreign country.
  (8) Private voluntary organization
     The term ””private voluntary organization““ means a not-for-profit, nongovernmental organization (in the case of a United States organization, an organization that is exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of title 26) that receives funds from private sources, voluntary contributions of money, staff time, or in-kind support from the public, and that is engaged in or is planning to engage in voluntary, charitable, or development assistance activities (other than religious activities).
  (9) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
