  (a) In general
     The Secretary may make or guarantee qualified conservation loans to eligible borrowers under this section.
  (b) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Qualified conservation loan
       The term ””qualified conservation loan““ means a loan, the proceeds of which are used to cover the costs to the borrower of carrying out a qualified conservation project.
    (2) Qualified conservation project
       The term ””qualified conservation project““ means conservation measures that address provisions of a conservation plan of the eligible borrower.
    (3) Conservation plan
       The term ””conservation plan““ means a plan, approved by the Secretary, that, for a farming or ranching operation, identifies the conservation activities that will be addressed with loan funds provided under this section, including–
      (A) the installation of conservation structures to address soil, water, and related resources;
      (B) the establishment of forest cover for sustained yield timber management, erosion control, or shelter belt purposes;
      (C) the installation of water conservation measures;
      (D) the installation of waste management systems;
      (E) the establishment or improvement of permanent pasture;
      (F) compliance with section 3812 of title 16; and
      (G) other purposes consistent with the plan, including the adoption of any other emerging or existing conservation practices, techniques, or technologies approved by the Secretary.
  (c) Eligibility
    (1) In general
       The Secretary may make or guarantee loans to farmers or ranchers in the United States, farm cooperatives, private domestic corporations, partnerships, joint operations, trusts, or limited liability companies that are controlled by farmers or ranchers and engaged primarily and directly in agricultural production in the United States.
    (2) Requirements
       To be eligible for a loan under this section, applicants shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1922(a) of this title.
  (d) Priority
     In making or guaranteeing loans under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to–
    (1) qualified beginning farmers or ranchers and socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers;
    (2) owners or tenants who use the loans to convert to sustainable or organic agricultural production systems; and
    (3) producers who use the loans to build conservation structures or establish conservation practices to comply with section 3812 of title 16.
  (e) Limitations applicable to loan guarantees
     The portion of a loan that the Secretary may guarantee under this section shall be 75 percent of the principal amount of the loan.
  (f) Administrative provisions
     The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that loans made or guaranteed under this section are distributed across diverse geographic regions.
  (g) Credit eligibility
     The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 1983 of this title shall not apply to loans made or guaranteed under this section.
  (h) Authorization of appropriations
     For each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such funds as are necessary to carry out this section.
