  (a) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Barn
       The term ””barn““ means a building (other than a dwelling) on a farm, ranch, or other agricultural operation for–
      (A) housing animals;
      (B) storing or processing crops;
      (C) storing and maintaining agricultural equipment; or
      (D) serving an essential or useful purpose related to agricultural activities conducted on the adjacent land.
    (2) Eligible applicant
       The term ””eligible applicant““ means–
      (A) a State department of agriculture (or a designee);
      (B) a national or State nonprofit organization that–
        (i) is described in section 501(c)(3) of title 26 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of title 26; and
        (ii) has experience or expertise, as determined by the Secretary, in the identification, evaluation, rehabilitation, preservation, or protection of historic barns; and
      (C) a State historic preservation office.
    (3) Historic barn
       The term ””historic barn““ means a barn that–
      (A) is at least 50 years old;
      (B) retains sufficient integrity of design, materials, and construction to clearly identify the barn as an agricultural building; and
      (C) meets the criteria for listing on National, State, or local registers or inventories of historic structures.
    (4) Secretary
       The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of Rural Development.
  (b) Program
     The Secretary shall establish a historic barn preservation program–
    (1) to assist States in developing a list of historic barns;
    (2) to collect and disseminate information on historic barns;
    (3) to foster educational programs relating to the history, construction techniques, rehabilitation, and contribution to society of historic barns; and
    (4) to sponsor and conduct research on–
      (A) the history of barns; and
      (B) best practices to protect and rehabilitate historic barns from the effects of decay, fire, arson, and natural disasters.
  (c) Grants
    (1) In general
       The Secretary may make grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, eligible applicants to carry out an eligible project under paragraph (2).
    (2) Eligible projects
       A grant under this subsection may be made to an eligible applicant for a project–
      (A) to rehabilitate or repair historic barns;
      (B) to preserve historic barns through–
        (i) the installation of a fire protection system, including fireproofing or fire detection system and sprinklers; and
        (ii) the installation of a system to prevent vandalism; and
      (C) to identify, document, and conduct research on historic barns (including surveys) to develop and evaluate appropriate techniques or best practices for protecting historic barns.
    (3) Priority
       In making grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give the highest priority to funding projects described in paragraph (2)(C).
    (4) Requirements
       An eligible applicant that receives a grant for a project under this subsection shall comply with any standards established by the Secretary of the Interior for historic preservation projects.
    (5) Authorization of appropriations
       There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.
