  (a) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Eligible organization
       The term ””eligible organization““ means a nonprofit entity, an educational institution, an Indian tribe (as defined in section 450b of title 25), or any other organization, in a rural area (except for the institute), that meets the requirements of this section and such other requirements as are established by the Secretary.
    (2) Institute
       The term ””institute““ means a rural telework institute established using a grant under subsection (b) of this section.
    (3) Telework
       The term ””telework““ means the use of telecommunications to perform work functions at a rural work center located outside the place of business of an employer.
  (b) Rural telework institute
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall make 1 or more grants to an eligible organization to pay the Federal share of the cost of establishing and operating a national rural telework institute to carry out projects described in paragraph (2).
    (2) Projects
       The institute shall use grant funds received under this subsection to carry out a 5-year project–
      (A) to serve as a clearinghouse for telework research and development;
      (B) to conduct outreach to rural communities and rural workers;
      (C) to develop and share best practices in rural telework throughout the United States;
      (D) to develop innovative, market-driven telework projects and joint ventures with the private sector that employ workers in rural areas in jobs that promote economic self-sufficiency;
      (E) to share information about the design and implementation of telework arrangements;
      (F) to support private sector businesses that are transitioning to telework;
      (G) to support and assist telework projects and individuals at the State and local level; and
      (H) to perform such other functions as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (3) Non-Federal share
      (A) In general
         As a condition of receiving a grant under this subsection, an eligible organization shall agree to obtain, after the application of the eligible organization has been approved and notice of award has been issued, contributions from non-Federal sources that are equal to–
        (i) during each of the first, second, and third years of a project, 30 percent of the amount of the grant; and
        (ii) during each of the fourth and fifth years of the project, 50 percent of the amount of the grant.
      (B) Indian tribes
         Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), an Indian tribe may use any Federal funds made available to the Indian tribe for self-governance to pay the non-Federal contributions required under subparagraph (A).
      (C) Form
         The non-Federal contributions required under subparagraph (A) may be in the form of in-kind contributions, including office equipment, office space, computer software, consultant services, computer networking equipment, and related services.
  (c) Telework grants
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraphs (2) through (5), the Secretary shall make grants to eligible organizations to pay the Federal share of the cost of–
      (A) obtaining equipment and facilities to establish or expand telework locations in rural areas; and
      (B) operating telework locations in rural areas.
    (2) Applications
       To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an eligible organization shall submit to the Secretary, and receive the approval of the Secretary of, an application for the grant that demonstrates that the eligible organization has adequate resources and capabilities to establish or expand a telework location in a rural area.
    (3) Non-Federal share
      (A) In general
         As a condition of receiving a grant under this subsection, an eligible organization shall agree to obtain, after the application of the eligible organization has been approved and notice of award has been issued, contributions from non-Federal sources that are equal to 50 percent of the amount of the grant.
      (B) Indian tribes
         Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), an Indian tribe may use Federal funds made available to the tribe for self-governance to pay the non-Federal contributions required under subparagraph (A).
      (C) Sources
         The non-Federal contributions required under subparagraph (A)–
        (i) may be in the form of in-kind contributions, including office equipment, office space, computer software, consultant services, computer networking equipment, and related services; and
        (ii) may not be made from funds made available for community development block grants under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.).
    (4) Duration
       The Secretary may not provide a grant under this subsection to expand or operate a telework location in a rural area after the date that is 3 years after the establishment of the telework location.
    (5) Amount
       The amount of a grant provided to an eligible organization under this subsection shall be not less than $1,000,000 and not more than $2,000,000.
  (d) Applicability of certain Federal law
     An eligible organization that receives funds under this section shall be subject to the provisions of Federal law (including regulations) administered by the Secretary of Labor or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that govern the responsibilities of employers to employees.
  (e) Regulations
     Not later than 180 days after May 13, 2002, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to carry out this section.
  (f) Authorization of appropriation
     There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2007, of which $5,000,000 shall be provided to establish and support an institute under subsection (b) of this section.
