  (a) In general
     Subject to the availability of funds appropriated under section 2027 of this title, the Secretary is authorized to formulate and administer a supplemental nutrition assistance program under which, at the request of the State agency, eligible households within the State shall be provided an opportunity to obtain a more nutritious diet through the issuance to them of an allotment, except that a State may not participate in the supplemental nutrition assistance program if the Secretary determines that State or local sales taxes are collected within that State on purchases of food made with benefits issued under this chapter. The benefits so received by such households shall be used only to purchase food from retail food stores which have been approved for participation in the supplemental nutrition assistance program. benefits \1\N issued and used as provided in this chapter shall be redeemable at face value by the Secretary through the facilities of the Treasury of the United States.
  (b) Food distribution program on Indian reservations
    (1) In general
       Distribution of commodities, with or without the supplemental nutrition assistance program, shall be made whenever a request for concurrent or separate food program operations, respectively, is made by a tribal organization.
    (2) Administration
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), in the event of distribution on all or part of an Indian reservation, the appropriate agency of the State government in the area involved shall be responsible for the distribution.
      (B) Administration by tribal organization
         If the Secretary determines that a tribal organization is capable of effectively and efficiently administering a distribution described in paragraph (1), then the tribal organization shall administer the distribution.
      (C) Prohibition
         The Secretary shall not approve any plan for a distribution described in paragraph (1) that permits any household on any Indian reservation to participate simultaneously in the supplemental nutrition assistance program and the program established under this subsection.
    (3) Disqualified participants
       An individual who is disqualified from participation in the food distribution program on Indian reservations under this subsection is not eligible to participate in the supplemental nutrition assistance program under this chapter for a period of time to be determined by the Secretary.
    (4) Administrative costs
       The Secretary is authorized to pay such amounts for administrative costs and distribution costs on Indian reservations as the Secretary finds necessary for effective administration of such distribution by a State agency or tribal organization.
    (5) Bison meat
       Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this paragraph, the Secretary may purchase bison meat for recipients of food distributed under this subsection, including bison meat from–
      (A) Native American bison producers; and
      (B) producer-owned cooperatives of bison ranchers.
    (6) Traditional and locally-grown food fund
      (A) In general
         Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall establish a fund for use in purchasing traditional and locally-grown foods for recipients of food distributed under this subsection.
      (B) Native American producers
         Where practicable, of the food provided under subparagraph (A), at least 50 percent shall be produced by Native American farmers, ranchers, and producers.
      (C) Definition of traditional and locally grown
         The Secretary shall determine the definition of the term ””traditional and locally-grown““ with respect to food distributed under this paragraph.
      (D) Survey
         In carrying out this paragraph, the Secretary shall–
        (i) survey participants of the food distribution program on Indian reservations established under this subsection to determine which traditional foods are most desired by those participants; and
        (ii) purchase or offer to purchase those traditional foods that may be procured cost-effectively.
      (E) Report
         Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report describing the activities carried out under this paragraph during the preceding calendar year.
      (F) Authorization of appropriations
         There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this paragraph $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.
  (c) Regulations; transmittal of copy of regulations to Congressional committees prior to issuance
     The Secretary shall issue such regulations consistent with this chapter as the Secretary deems necessary or appropriate for the effective and efficient administration of the supplemental nutrition assistance program and shall promulgate all such regulations in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 553 of title 5. In addition, prior to issuing any regulation, the Secretary shall provide the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a copy of the regulation with a detailed statement justifying it.
