  (a) Standards and procedures for reviews
    (1) Initial reviews
      (A) In general
         Not later than 1 year after November 28, 1990, the Secretary shall complete a review of regulations and standards (in effect on November 28, 1990) for the approval of an automated data processing and information retrieval system maintained by a State (hereinafter in this section referred to as a ””system““) to determine the extent to which the regulations and standards contribute to a more effective and efficient program.
      (B) Revision of regulations
         The Secretary shall revise regulations (in effect on November 28, 1990) to take into account the findings of the review conducted under subparagraph (A).
      (C) Incorporation of existing systems
         The regulations shall require States to incorporate all or part of systems in use elsewhere, unless a State documents that the design and operation of an alternative system would be less costly. The Secretary shall establish standards to define the extent of modification of the systems for which payments will be made under either section 2025(a) or 2025(g) of this title.
      (D) Implementation
         Proposed systems shall meet standards established by the Secretary for timely implementation of proper changes.
      (E) Cost effectiveness
         Criteria for the approval of a system under section 2025(g) of this title shall include the cost effectiveness of the proposed system. On implementation of the approved system, a State shall document the actual cost and benefits of the system.
    (2) Operational reviews
       The Secretary shall conduct such reviews as are necessary to ensure that systems–
      (A) comply with conditions of initial funding approvals; and
      (B) adequately support program delivery in compliance with this chapter and regulations issued under this chapter.
  (b) Standards for approval of systems
    (1) In general
       After conducting the review required under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall establish standards for approval of systems.
    (2) Implementation
       A State shall implement the standards established by the Secretary within a reasonable period of time, as determined by the Secretary.
    (3) Periodic compliance reviews
       The Secretary shall conduct appropriate periodic reviews of systems to ensure compliance with the standards established by the Secretary.
  (c) Report
     Not later than October 1, 1993, the Secretary shall report to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on the extent to which State agencies have developed and are operating effective systems that support supplemental nutrition assistance program delivery in compliance with this chapter and regulations issued under this chapter.
