  (a) ””Federal costs““ defined
     In this section, the term ””Federal costs““ does not include any Federal costs incurred under section 2026 of this title.
  (b) Election
     Subject to subsection (d) of this section, a State may elect to carry out a simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program (referred to in this section as a ””Program““), statewide or in a political subdivision of the State, in accordance with this section.
  (c) Operation of Program
     If a State elects to carry out a Program, within the State or a political subdivision of the State–
    (1) a household in which no members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) may not participate in the Program;
    (2) a household in which all members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) shall automatically be eligible to participate in the Program;
    (3) if approved by the Secretary, a household in which 1 or more members but not all members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) may be eligible to participate in the Program; and
    (4) subject to subsection (f) of this section, benefits under the Program shall be determined under rules and procedures established by the State under–
      (A) a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.);
      (B) the supplemental nutrition assistance program; or
      (C) a combination of a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) and the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
  (d) Approval of Program
    (1) State plan
       A State agency may not operate a Program unless the Secretary approves a State plan for the operation of the Program under paragraph (2).
    (2) Approval of plan
       The Secretary shall approve any State plan to carry out a Program if the Secretary determines that the plan–
      (A) complies with this section; and
      (B) contains sufficient documentation that the plan will not increase Federal costs for any fiscal year.
  (e) Increased Federal costs
    (1) Determination
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall determine whether a Program being carried out by a State agency is increasing Federal costs under this chapter.
      (B) No excluded households
         In making a determination under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall not require the State agency to collect or report any information on households not included in the Program.
      (C) Alternative accounting periods
         The Secretary may approve the request of a State agency to apply alternative accounting periods to determine if Federal costs do not exceed the Federal costs had the State agency not elected to carry out the Program.
    (2) Notification
       If the Secretary determines that the Program has increased Federal costs under this chapter for any fiscal year or any portion of any fiscal year, the Secretary shall notify the State not later than 30 days after the Secretary makes the determination under paragraph (1).
    (3) Enforcement
      (A) Corrective action
         Not later than 90 days after the date of a notification under paragraph (2), the State shall submit a plan for approval by the Secretary for prompt corrective action that is designed to prevent the Program from increasing Federal costs under this chapter.
      (B) Termination
         If the State does not submit a plan under subparagraph (A) or carry out a plan approved by the Secretary, the Secretary shall terminate the approval of the State agency operating the Program and the State agency shall be ineligible to operate a future Program.
  (f) Rules and procedures
    (1) In general
       In operating a Program, a State or political subdivision of a State may follow the rules and procedures established by the State or political subdivision under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) or under the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
    (2) Standardized deductions
       In operating a Program, a State or political subdivision of a State may standardize the deductions provided under section 2014(e) of this title. In developing the standardized deduction, the State shall consider the work expenses, dependent care costs, and shelter costs of participating households.
    (3) Requirements
       In operating a Program, a State or political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of–
      (A) subsections (a) through (f) of section 2016 of this title;
      (B) section 2017(a) of this title (except that the income of a household may be determined under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.));
      (C) subsection \1\N (b) and (d) of section 2017 of this title;
      (D) subsections (a), (c), (d), and (n) of section 2020 of this title;
      (E) paragraphs (8), (12), (15), (17), (18), (22), and (23) of section 2020(e) of this title;
      (F) section 2020(e)(10) of this title (or a comparable requirement established by the State under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.)); and
      (G) section 2025 of this title.
    (4) Limitation on eligibility
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a household may not receive benefits under this section as a result of the eligibility of the household under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), unless the Secretary determines that any household with income above 130 percent of the poverty guidelines is not eligible for the program.
