  (a) In general
     The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized, directly or in coordination with any other Federal agency, entity, corporation, department, unit of State or local government, cooperative, confederation, individual, public or private organization, Indian tribe, or university, to–
    (1) conduct research and demonstration projects;
    (2) provide technical assistance and extension services;
    (3) make grants, loans, and loan guarantees; and
    (4) provide other forms of assistance, for the purpose of helping rural areas make better and more efficient use of water resources and to alleviate problems arising in such areas from droughts or lack of water.
  (b) Activities
     The Secretary is authorized to provide assistance under this section for the promotion or establishment of irrigation, watersheds, and other water management and drought management activities, including water transmission, application, and activation.
  (c) Cooperation
     In implementing this section, the Secretary–
    (1) should address the general, special, and unique problems of water management existing in rural areas;
    (2) may take action independently or in cooperation with Federal, State, public, or private entities and agencies; and
    (3) shall cooperate with–
      (A) cooperatives, public or private organizations, confederations, authorities, or other entities (including such entities that may be organized under multiple State agreements or compacts and entities created under State law) to carry out projects authorized under this section; and
      (B) water, watershed, and sewer authorities, rural electric cooperatives, Federal agencies, and other State or local governments or agencies.
  (d) Regulations
    (1) The Secretary shall issue regulations to carry out this section.
    (2) Such regulations shall–
      (A) specify the terms and conditions that the entities described in subsections (a) and (c) of this section must meet in order to participate in programs carried out under this section;
      (B) establish a procedure under which entities described in subsections (a) and (c) of this section may apply for assistance under this section; and
      (C) foster cooperation between such entities and other Federal, State, or local agencies for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this section.
  (e) ””University““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””university““ means–
    (1) a land grant university established under the Act of July 2, 1862 (known as the ””First Morrill Act““; 12 Stat. 503, chapter 130; 7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.);
    (2) a land grant university established under the Act of August 30, 1890 (known as the ””Second Morrill Act““; 26 Stat. 419, chapter 841; 7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.);
    (3) the Tuskegee Institute; and
    (4) any other support research organization.
  (f) Funding
    (1) There are authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to accept funds from non-Federal sources to carry out the activities authorized by this section.
  (g) No waivers
     Nothing in this section shall authorize the waiver of a cost-share requirement under a program established under any other provision of law.
