  (a) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
  (b) Distributions
     Such sums as are appropriated to carry out the provisions of section 2662(a) and (b) of this title shall be distributed by the Secretary of Agriculture as follows:
    (1) 4 per centum shall be retained by the Secretary for program administration and national coordination of State programs, and program assistance to the States;
    (2) 10 per centum shall be used to finance work serving two or more States in which colleges or universities in two or more States cooperate or that is conducted by one college or university to serve two or more States;
    (3) 20 per centum shall be allocated equally among the States; and
    (4) 66 per centum shall be allocated to each State as follows: One-half in an amount that bears the same ratio to the total amount to be allotted as the rural population of the State bears to the total rural population of all the States, as determined by the last preceding decennial census current at that time; and one-half in an amount that bears the same ratio to the total amount to be allotted as the farm population of the State bears to the total farm population of all the States, as determined by the last preceding decennial census current at that time:
       T3ProvidedK, That, beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 1982, no State may receive more than $75,000 until all States have been allotted a minimum of $75,000.
  (c) Additional distributions
     Such sums as are appropriated to carry out subsections (e) and (i) of section 2662 of this title shall be distributed by the Secretary to colleges and universities, on a competitive or matching fund basis, according to the Secretary“s determination of the projects and manner of funding that show the most promise of fulfilling the objectives of those subsections.
  (d) Administration of programs
     Funds appropriated under this subchapter may be used to pay salaries and other expenses of personnel employed to carry out the functions authorized by this subchapter; to obtain necessary supplies, equipment, and services; and to rent, repair, and maintain facilities needed, but not to purchase or construct buildings.
  (e) Development of plans of work and budgets by eligible institutions
     Payment of funds to any State for programs authorized under section 2662(a), (b), (c), and (d) of this title shall be contingent upon approval by the Secretary of a plan of work and budget for such programs and compliance with such regulations as the Secretary may issue under this subchapter. Plans for work shall be jointly developed in each State by the land-grant colleges and universities eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 (7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), and the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.), including Tuskegee Institute. In States in which there is no land-grant institution eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890, the land-grant institution eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862, shall be responsible for developing plans of work and budgets. In the development of the plans of work and budgets, consideration shall be given to involvement of the resources and expertise of the colleges and universities serving  the  region  in  which  the  plans  and budgets are to be applied.
  (f) Availability; budgets and accounts
     Funds shall be available for use by each State in the fiscal year for which appropriated and the next fiscal year following the fiscal year for which appropriated. Funds shall be budgeted and accounted for on such forms and at such times as the Secretary shall prescribe.
  (g) Financing of programs at other than cooperating institutions
     Funds provided to each State under this subchapter may be used to finance programs through or at private and publicly supported colleges and universities other than the institutions responsible for administering the programs, as provided under section 2664 of this title.
