  (a) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Eligible institution
       The term ””eligible institution““ means a college eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.) (commonly known as the ””Second Morrill Act““), including Tuskegee University.
    (2) Formula funds
       The term ””formula funds““ means the formula allocation funds distributed to eligible institutions under sections 3221 and 3222 of this title.
  (b) Determination of non-Federal sources of funds
     Not later than September 30, 1999, each eligible institution shall submit to the Secretary a report describing for fiscal year 1999–
    (1) the sources of non-Federal funds made available by the State to the eligible institution for agricultural research, extension, and education to meet the requirements of this section; and
    (2) the amount of such funds generally available from each source.
  (c) Matching formula
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the distribution of formula funds to an eligible institution shall be subject to the following matching requirements:
    (1) For fiscal year 2000, the State shall provide matching funds from non-Federal sources in an amount equal to not less than 30 percent of the formula funds to be distributed to the eligible institution.
    (2) For fiscal year 2001, the State shall provide matching funds from non-Federal sources in an amount equal to not less than 45 percent of the formula funds to be distributed to the eligible institution.
    (3) For fiscal year 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter, the State shall provide matching funds from non-Federal sources in an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the formula funds to be distributed to the eligible institution.
  (d) Limited waiver authority
    (1) Fiscal year 2000
       Notwithstanding subsection (f) of this section, the Secretary may waive the matching funds requirement under subsection (c)(1) of this section for fiscal year 2000 for an eligible institution of a State if the Secretary determines that, based on the report received under subsection (b) of this section, the State will be unlikely to satisfy the matching requirement.
    (2) Future fiscal years
       The Secretary may not waive the matching requirement under subsection (c) of this section for any fiscal year other than fiscal year 2000.
  (e) Use of matching funds
     Under terms and conditions established by the Secretary, matching funds provided as required by subsection (c) of this section may be used by an eligible institution for agricultural research, extension, and education activities.
  (f) Redistribution of funds
    (1) Redistribution required
       Federal funds that are not matched by a State in accordance with subsection (c) of this section for a fiscal year shall be redistributed by the Secretary to eligible institutions whose States have satisfied the matching funds requirement for that fiscal year.
    (2) Administration
       Any redistribution of funds under this subsection shall be subject to the applicable matching requirement specified in subsection (c) of this section and shall be made in a manner consistent with sections 3221 and 3222 of this title, as determined by the Secretary.
