  (a) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated annually such sums as Congress may determine necessary to support continuing agricultural research at colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417–419, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 321–326 and 328), including Tuskegee University (hereinafter referred to in this section as ””eligible institutions““). Beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 1979, there shall be appropriated under this section for each fiscal year an amount not less than 15 per centum of the total appropriations for such year under section 361c of this title: T3ProvidedK, That the amount appropriated for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1979, shall not be less than the amount made available in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978, to such eligible institutions under the Act of August 4, 1965 (79 Stat. 431, 7 U.S.C. 450i). Funds appropriated under this section shall be used for expenses of conducting agricultural research, printing, disseminating the results of such research, contributing to the retirement of employees subject to the provisions of section 331 of this title, administrative planning and direction, and purchase and rental of land and the construction, acquisition, alteration, or repair of buildings necessary for conducting agricultural research. The eligible institutions are authorized to plan and conduct agricultural research in cooperation with each other and such agencies, institutions, and individuals as may contribute to the solution of agricultural problems, and moneys appropriated pursuant to this section shall be available for paying the necessary expenses of planning, coordinating, and conducting such cooperative research. No more than 5 percent of the funds received by an institution in any fiscal year, under this section, may be carried forward to the succeeding fiscal year.
  (b) Allocation and distribution of appropriated funds
     Beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 1979, the funds appropriated in each fiscal year under this section shall be distributed as follows:
    (1) Three per centum shall be available to the Secretary for administration of this section. These administrative funds may be used for transportation of scientists who are not officers or employees of the United States to research meetings convened for the purpose of assessing research opportunities or research planning.
    (2) The remainder shall be allotted among the eligible institutions as follows:
      (A) Funds up to the total amount made available to all eligible institutions in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978, under section 450i of this title, shall be allocated among the eligible institutions in the same proportion as funds made available under section 450i of this title, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978, are allocated among the eligible institutions.
      (B) Of funds in excess of the amount allocated under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, 20 per centum shall be allotted among eligible institutions in equal proportions; 40 per centum shall be allotted among the eligible institutions in the proportion that the rural population of the State in which each eligible institution is located bears to the total rural population of all the States in which eligible institutions are located, as determined by the last preceding decennial census current at the time each such additional sum is first appropriated; and the balance shall be allotted among the eligible institutions in the proportion that the farm population of the State in which each eligible institution is located bears to the total farm population of all the States in which the eligible institutions are located, as determined by the last preceding decennial census current at the time each such additional sum is first appropriated.
     In computing the distribution of funds allocated under this subparagraph, the allotments to Tuskegee University and Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University shall be determined as if each institution were in a separate State.
  (c) Program and plans of work
    (1) Initial comprehensive program of agricultural research
       The director of the State agricultural experiment station in each State where an eligible institution is located and the research director specified in subsection (d) of this section in each of the eligible institutions in such State shall jointly develop, by mutual agreement, a comprehensive program of agricultural research in such State, to be submitted for approval by the Secretary within one year after September 29, 1977.
    (2) Plan of work required
       Before funds may be provided to an eligible institution under this section for any fiscal year, a plan of work to be carried out under this section shall be submitted by the research director specified in subsection (d) of this section and shall be approved by the Secretary.
    (3) Requirements related to plan of work
       Each plan of work required under paragraph (2) shall contain descriptions of the following:
      (A) The critical short-term, intermediate, and long-term agricultural issues in the State in which the eligible institution is located and the current and planned research programs and projects targeted to address the issues.
      (B) The process established to consult with users of agricultural research regarding the identification of critical agricultural issues in the State and the development of research programs and projects targeted to address the issues.
      (C) Other colleges and universities within the State, and within other States, that have a unique capacity to address the identified agricultural issues in the State.
      (D) The current and emerging efforts to work with those other institutions to build on each other“s experience and take advantage of each institution“s unique capacities.
      (E) The manner in which research and extension, including research and extension activities funded other than through formula funds, will cooperate to address the critical issues in the State, including the activities to be carried out separately, the activities to be carried out sequentially, and the activities to be carried out jointly.
    (4) Research protocols
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall develop protocols to be used to evaluate the success of multistate, multi-institutional, and multidisciplinary research activities and joint research and extension activities in addressing critical agricultural issues identified in the plans of work submitted under paragraph (2).
      (B) Consultation
         The Secretary shall develop the protocols in consultation with the Advisory Board and land-grant colleges and universities.
    (5) Treatment of plans of work for other purposes
       To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall consider a plan of work submitted under paragraph (2) to satisfy other appropriate Federal reporting requirements.
  (d) Payment of funds to eligible institutions
     Sums available for allotment to the eligible institutions under the terms of this section shall be paid to such institutions in equal quarterly payments beginning on or about the first day of October of each year upon vouchers approved by the Secretary. The President of each eligible institution shall appoint a research director who shall be responsible for administration of the program authorized herein. Each eligible institution shall designate a treasurer or other officer who shall receive and account for all funds allotted to such institution under the provisions of this section and shall report, with the approval of the research director, to the Secretary on or before the first day of December of each year a detailed statement of the amount received under the provisions of this section during the preceding fiscal year and its disbursement on schedules prescribed by the Secretary. If any portion of the allotted moneys received by any eligible institution shall by any action or contingency be diminished, lost, or misapplied, it shall be replaced by such institution and until so replaced no subsequent appropriation shall be allotted or paid to such institution. Funds made available to eligible institutions shall not be used for payment of negotiated overhead or indirect cost rates.
  (e) Mailing of bulletins, reports, periodicals, reprints, articles, and other publications
     Bulletins, reports, periodicals, reprints or articles, and other publications necessary for the dissemination of results of the research and experiments funded under this section, including lists of publications available for distribution by the eligible institutions, shall be transmitted in the mails of the United States under penalty indicia: T3ProvidedK, That each publication shall bear such indicia as are prescribed by the Postmaster General and shall be mailed under such regulations as the Postmaster General may from time to time prescribe. Such publications may be mailed from the principal place of business of each eligible institution or from an established subunit of such institution.
  (f) Administration; rules and regulations; cooperation by and between institutions
     The Secretary shall be responsible for the proper administration of this section, and is authorized and directed to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out its provisions. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to furnish such advice and assistance as will best promote the purposes of this section, including participation in coordination of research initiated under this section by the eligible institutions, from time to time to indicate such lines of inquiry as to the Secretary seem most important, and to encourage and assist in the establishment and maintenance of cooperation by and between the several eligible institutions, the State agricultural experiment stations, and between them and the Department of Agriculture.
  (g) Entitlement
     On or before the first day of October in each year after September 29, 1977, the Secretary shall ascertain whether each eligible institution is entitled to receive its share of the annual appropriations under this section and the amount which thereupon each is entitled, respectively, to receive.
  (h) Existing legal relationships not impaired or modified
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or modify the legal relationship existing between any of the eligible institutions and the government of the States in which they are respectively located.
