  (a) Authorization
     There are authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of sections 361a to 361i of this title such sums as Congress may from time to time determine to be necessary.
  (b) Allotments to States; authorization of appropriations for Virgin Islands and Guam; limitation
    (1) Out of such sums each State shall be entitled to receive annually a sum of money equal to and subject to the same requirement as to use for marketing research projects as the sums received from Federal appropriations for State agricultural experiment stations for the fiscal year 1955, except that amounts heretofore made available from the fund known as the ””Regional research fund, Office of Experiment Stations““ shall continue to be available for the support of cooperative regional projects as defined in subsection (c)(3) of this section, and the said fund shall be designated ””Regional research fund, State agricultural experiment stations,““ and the Secretary of Agriculture shall be entitled to receive annually for the administration of sections 361a to 361i of this title, a sum not less than that available for this purpose for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1955: T3ProvidedK, That if the appropriations hereunder available for distribution in any fiscal year are less than those for the fiscal year 1955 the allotment to each State and the amounts for Federal administration and the regional research fund shall be reduced in proportion to the amount of such reduction.
    (2) There is authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1973, and for each fiscal year thereafter, for payment to the Virgin Islands and Guam, $100,000 each, which sums shall be in addition to the sums appropriated for the several States of the United States and Puerto Rico under the provisions of this section. The amount paid by the Federal Government to the Virgin Islands and Guam pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed during any fiscal year, except the fiscal years ending June 30, 1971, and June 30, 1972, when such amount may be used to pay the total cost of providing services pursuant to sections 361a to 361i of this title, the amount available and budgeted for expenditure by the Virgin Islands and Guam for the purposes of such sections.
  (c) Allotment of additional sums
     Any sums made available by the Congress in addition to those provided for in subsection (b) of this section for State agricultural experiment station work shall be distributed as follows:
     1. Twenty per centum shall be allotted equally to each State;
     2. Not less than 52 per centum of such sums shall be allotted to each State, as follows: One-half in an amount which bears the same ratio to the total amount to be allotted as the rural population of the State bears to the total rural population of all the States as determined by the last preceding decennial census current at the time each such additional sum is first appropriated; and one-half in an amount which bears the same ratio to the total amount to be allotted as the farm population of the State bears to the total farm population of all the States as determined by the last preceding decennial census current at the time such additional sum is first appropriated;
     3. Not more than 25 per centum shall be allotted to the States for cooperative research in which two or more State agricultural experiment stations are cooperating to solve problems that concern the agriculture of more than one State. The funds available for such purposes, together with funds available pursuant to subsection (b) of this section for like purpose shall be designated as the ””Regional research fund, State agricultural experiment stations““;
     4. Repealed. Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, § 1466(a), Sept. 29, 1977, 91 Stat. 1018.
     5. Three per centum shall be available to the Secretary of Agriculture for administration of sections 361a to 361i of this title. These administrative funds may be used for transportation of scientists who are not officers or employees of the United States to research meetings convened for the purpose of assessing research opportunities or research planning.
  (d) Allotment of amounts in excess of $90,000
     Of any amount in excess of $90,000 available under sections 361a to 361i of this title for allotment to any State, exclusive of the regional research fund, State agricultural experiment stations, no allotment and no payments thereof shall be made in excess of the amount which the State makes available out of its own funds for research and for the establishment and maintenance of facilities necessary for the prosecution of such research: T3And provided furtherK, That if any State fails to make available for such research purposes for any fiscal year a sum equal to the amount in excess of $90,000 to which it may be entitled for such year, the remainder of such amount shall be withheld by the Secretary of Agriculture and reapportioned among the States.
  (e) ””Administration““ defined
     ””Administration““ as used in this section shall include participation in planning and coordinating cooperative regional research as defined in subsection (c)3 of this section.
  (f) Adjustment of payments
     In making payments to States, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to adjust any such payment to the nearest dollar.
  (g) Reductions and reapportionments
     If in any year the amount made available by a State from its own funds (including any revenue-sharing funds) to a State agricultural experiment station is reduced because of an increase in the allotment made available under sections 361a to 361i of this title, the allotment to the State agricultural experiment station from the appropriation in the next succeeding fiscal year shall be reduced in an equivalent amount. The Secretary shall reapportion the amount of such reduction to other States for use by their agricultural experiment stations.
