  (a) Establishment
     Not later than 6 months after April 4, 1996, the Secretary shall establish a task force, to be known as the ””Strategic Planning Task Force““. The task force shall be comprised of 15 members.
  (b) Composition
     The Secretary shall select the members of the task force from a list of individuals recommended by the Advisory Board established under section 3123 of this title. In submitting the list to the Secretary, the Board may recommend for selection individuals (including members of the Advisory Board) who have expertise in facilities development, modernization, construction, consolidation, and closure.
  (c) Duties
     The task force shall review all currently operating agricultural research facilities constructed in whole or in part with Federal funds, and all planned agricultural research facilities proposed to be constructed with Federal funds, pursuant to criteria established by the Secretary, to ensure that a comprehensive research capacity is maintained.
  (d) 10-year strategic plan
     Not later than 2 years after the task force is established, the task force shall prepare and submit to the Secretary and the congressional agriculture committees a 10-year strategic plan, reflecting both national and multistate perspectives, for development, modernization, construction, consolidation, and closure of Federal agricultural research facilities and agricultural research facilities proposed to be constructed with Federal funds.
  (e) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act
    (1) Public meetings
       All meetings of the task force shall be publicly announced in advance and shall be open to the public. Detailed minutes of meetings and other appropriate records of the activities of the task force shall be kept and made available to the public on request.
    (2) Exemption
       The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) and title XVIII of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2281 et seq.) shall not apply to the task force.
  (f) ””Agricultural research facility““ defined
     Notwithstanding section 390(1) of this title, in this section the term ””agricultural research facility““ means a facility for research in food and agricultural sciences.
  (g) Comprehensive research capacity
     After submission of the 10-year strategic plan required under subsection (d) of this section, the Secretary shall continue to review periodically each operating agricultural research facility constructed in whole or in part with Federal funds, and each planned agricultural research facility proposed to be constructed in whole or in part with Federal funds, pursuant to criteria established by the Secretary, to ensure that a comprehensive research capacity is maintained.
