  (a) Distribution of agricultural commodities to community food banks for emergency distribution; availability of agricultural commodities; use of currently used distributorship systems; selection of food banks
     The Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out special nutrition projects to provide agricultural commodities and other foods that might not otherwise be used, or might be more effectively used by organizations assisted under this section, to community food banks for emergency food box distribution to needy individuals and families. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Secretary shall make available for purposes of such special nutrition projects, agricultural commodities and other foods available to the Secretary under section 1431 of this title, section 1446a–1 of this title, and section 612c of this title. For purposes of distributing agricultural commodities and other foods to community food banks under this section, the Secretary may, in consultation with State agencies, use food distribution systems currently used to distribute agricultural commodities and other foods under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act [42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.] and Child Nutrition Act of 1966 [42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.]. The Secretary shall select food banks, in consultation with the Director of the Community Services Administration, for participation in the special nutrition projects under this section. Food banks shall be selected for participation so as to ensure adequate geographic distribution of emergency food box programs in at least two but not more than seven Department of Agriculture regions.
  (b) Application by food bank; recordkeeping and internal procedures
    (1) No food bank may participate in the special nutrition projects conducted under this section unless an application therefor is submitted to and approved by the Secretary. Such application shall be submitted in such form and manner and shall contain such information as the Secretary shall prescribe.
    (2) Each food bank participating in the special nutrition projects under this section shall establish a recordkeeping system and internal procedures to monitor the use of agricultural commodities and other foods provided under this section. The Secretary shall develop standards by which the feasibility and effectiveness of the projects shall be measured, and shall conduct an ongoing review of the effectiveness of the projects.
  (c) Quantities and types of agricultural commodities; regulations for designation of eligible participants
     The Secretary shall determine the quantities and types of agricultural commodities and other foods to be made available under this section. The Secretary may prescribe regulations regarding the designation of eligible participants in the projects and any other regulations necessary to carry out this section.
  (d) Report to Congress; contents; recommendations
     The Secretary shall submit to Congress a progress report on July 1, 1983, and a final report on January 1, 1984, regarding the special nutrition projects carried out under this section. Such report shall include an analysis and evaluation of Federal participation in food bank emergency food programs, the effectiveness of such participation, and the feasibility of continuing such participation. The Secretary shall also include in such report any recommendations regarding improvements in Federal assistance to community food banks, including assistance for administrative expenses and transportation.
  (e) Sale of food prohibited; fines and penalties
     The sale of food provided under this section shall be prohibited and any person who receives any remuneration in exchange for food provided under this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
  (f) Paperwork minimization and encouragement of participation
     The Secretary shall minimize paperwork requirements placed on food banks which participate in the special nutrition projects established under this section and shall otherwise encourage food banks to participate in such projects.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
