   As used in this chapter–
  (1) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture.
  (2) The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
  (3) The term ””cut flowers““ means all flowers and decorative foliage used as fresh-cut flowers, fresh-cut decorative foliage, dried, preserved, and processed flowers, or dried and preserved decorative foliage, produced either under cover or in field operations.
  (4) The term ””potted flowering plants““ means those plants that normally produce flowers, primarily produced in pots or similar containers, that are primarily used for interior decoration, whether grown under cover or in field operations.
  (5) The term ””foliage plants““ means those plants, normally without flowers, primarily produced in pots or similar containers, that are primarily used for interior decorations, whether grown under cover or in field operations.
  (6) The term ””propagational material““ means any plant material used in the propagation of cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants, including cuttings, bulbs and corms, seedlings, canes, liners, plants, cells or tissue cultures, air layers and bublets,\1\N rhizomes, and root stocks. This term does not include seeds.
  (7) The term ””flowers and plants““ means cut flowers, potted flowering plants, foliage plants, and propagational material.
  (8) The term ””United States““ means the fifty States of the United States of America, the territories and possessions of the United States of America, and the District of Columbia.
  (9) The term ””promotion““ means any action, including paid advertising, to advance the image or desirability of cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants.
  (10) The term ””research““ means any type of research to advance the image, desirability, or marketability of cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants.
  (11) The term ””consumer education““ means any action to provide information on the care and handling of cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants.
  (12) The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition in commerce of cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants.
  (13) Unless otherwise noted, the term ””producer““ means any person who produces domestically, for sale in commerce, cut flowers, potted flowering plants, or foliage plants.
  (14) The term ””Floraboard““ means the board provided for under section 4306 of this title.
  (15) The term ””importer““ means any person who imports cut flowers, potted flowering plants, or foliage plants from outside of the United States or who acts as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person or nation that produces flowers and plants outside of the United States for sale in the United States.
  (16) The term ””commodity group““ means that portion of the flower and plant industry devoted to the production and importation of any one of the following: (A) cut flowers; (B) potted flowering plants; or (C) foliage plants.
  (17) The term ””cost of plant material““ means the actual price paid by a producer for any propagational material or any other flowers and plants used in the production of flowers and plants. This term does not include the cost of seeds.
