   As used in this chapter:
  (1) The term ””honey““ means the nectar and saccharine exudations of plants which are gathered, modified, and stored in the comb by honey bees.
  (2) The term ””honey products““ means products produced, in whole or part, from honey.
  (3) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (4) The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
  (5) The term ””producer““ means any person who produces honey in the United States for sale in commerce.
  (6) The term ””handler““ means any person who handles honey.
  (7) The term ””handle““ means to sell, package, or process honey.
  (8) The term ””importer““ means any person who imports honey or honey products into the United States or acts as an agent, broker, or consignee for any person or nation that produces honey outside of the United States for sale in the United States and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such honey or honey products.
  (9) The term ””producer-packer““ means any person who is both a producer and handler of honey.
  (10) The term ””promotion““ means any action, including paid advertising, pursuant to this chapter, to present a favorable image for honey or honey products to the public with the express intent of improving the competitive position and stimulating sales of honey or honey products.
  (11) The term ””research““ means any type of research designed to advance the image, desirability, usage, marketability, production, or quality of honey or honey products.
  (12) The term ””consumer education““ means any action to provide information on the usage and care of honey or honey products.
  (13) The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition in commerce of honey or honey products.
  (14) The term ””Committee““ means the National Honey Nominations Committee provided for under section 4606(b) of this title.
  (15) The term ””Honey Board““ means the board provided for under section 4606(c) of this title.
  (16) The term ””State association““ means that organization of beekeepers in a State which is generally recognized as representing the beekeepers of that State.
  (17) The term ””State““ means any of the several States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
  (18) The term ””exporter““ means any person who exports honey or honey products from the United States.
