  (a) In general
     The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the ””Secretary““) shall–
    (1) make cotton classification services available to producers of cotton; and
    (2) provide for the collection of classification fees from participating producers or agents that voluntarily agree to collect and remit the fees on behalf of producers.
  (b) Fees
    (1) Use of fees
       Classification fees collected under subsection (a)(2) and the proceeds from the sales of samples submitted under this section shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be used to pay the cost of the services provided under this section, including administrative and supervisory costs.
    (2) Announcement of fees
       The Secretary shall announce a uniform classification fee and any applicable surcharge for classification services not later than June 1 of the year in which the fee applies.
  (c) Consultation
    (1) In general
       In establishing the amount of fees under this section, the Secretary shall consult with representatives of the United States cotton industry.
    (2) Exemption
       The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to consultations with representatives of the United States cotton industry under this section.
  (d) Crediting of fees
     Any fees collected under this section and under section 473d of this title, late payment penalties, the proceeds from the sales of samples, and interest earned from the investment of such funds shall–
    (1) be credited to the current appropriation account that incurs the cost of services provided under this section and section 473d of this title; and
    (2) remain available without fiscal year limitation to pay the expenses of the Secretary in providing those services.
  (e) Investment of funds
     Funds described in subsection (d) may be invested–
    (1) by the Secretary in insured or fully collateralized, interest-bearing accounts; or
    (2) at the discretion of the Secretary, by the Secretary of the Treasury in United States Government debt instruments.
  (f) Lease agreements
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may enter into long-term lease agreements that exceed 5 years or may take title to property (including through purchase agreements) for the purpose of obtaining offices to be used for the classification of cotton in accordance with this chapter, if the Secretary determines that action would best effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
     To the extent that financing is not available from fees and the proceeds from the sales of samples, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
