  (a) Nominations
    (1) Not later than 30 days after the effective date of the order, the Secretary shall call for the nomination within each State of candidates for appointment as producer members of the initial Delegate Body.
    (2) Each State association may nominate producers who are residents of such State to serve as such candidates.
    (3)      (A) \1\N Additional producers who are residents of a State may be nominated as candidates of such State by written petition signed by 100 producers or 5 percent of the pork producers in such State, whichever is less. The Secretary shall establish and publicize the procedures governing the time and place for filing petitions.
  (b) Election; eligibility to vote; notice of election; number of members nominated
    (1) After the Secretary has received the nominations required under subsection (a) of this section and not later than 45 days after the effective date of the order, the Secretary shall call for an election within each State of persons for appointment as producer members of the initial Delegate Body.
    (2) To be eligible to vote in an election held in a State, a person must be a producer who is a resident of such State.
    (3)      (A) Notice of each such election shall be given by the Secretary–
        (i) by publication in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in each State, and in pork production and agriculture trade publications, at least 1 week prior to the election; and
        (ii) in any other reasonable manner determined by the Secretary.
      (B) The notice shall set forth the period of time and places for voting and such other information as the Secretary considers necessary.
    (4) Each State shall nominate to the Delegate Body the number of producer members required under section 4806(b)(2)(B) of this title.
    (5) The producers who receive the highest number of votes in each State shall be nominated for appointment as members of the Delegate Body from such State.
  (c) Subsequent nominations and elections to be administered by Board; time of election; voting eligibility
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), after the election of the producer members of the initial Delegate Body, the Board shall administer all subsequent nominations and elections of the producer members to be nominated for appointment as members of the Delegate Body, with the assistance of the Secretary and in accordance with subsections (a)(3) and (b) of this section.
    (2) The Board shall determine the timing of an election referred to in paragraph (1).
    (3) To be eligible to vote in such an election in a State, a person must–
      (A) be a producer who is a resident of such State;
      (B) have paid all assessments due under section 4809 of this title; and
      (C) not demanded a refund of an assessment under section 4813 of this title.
  (d) Nominating committee; appointment; nomination to fill position for pending election
    (1) Prior to the expiration of the term of any producer member of the Delegate Body, the Board shall appoint a nominating committee of producers who are residents of the State represented by such member.
    (2) Such committee shall nominate producers of such State as candidates to fill the position for which an election is to be held.
    (3) Additional producers who are residents of a State may be nominated to fill such positions in accordance with subsection (a)(3) of this section.
