  (a)    (1) The order shall provide for the establishment and appointment by the Secretary of a 15-member National Pork Board.
    (2) \1\N The Board shall consist of producers representing at least 12 States and importers appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted under section 4806(g) of this title .
  (2) \1\ The Board shall consist of producers or importers appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted under section 4806(g) of this title.
  (3) A member of the Board shall serve for a 3-year term, with no such member serving more than two consecutive 3-year terms, except that initial appointments to the Board shall be staggered with an equal number of members appointed, to the maximum extent possible, to 1-year, 2-year, and 3-year terms, except that the term of a member of the Board shall continue until the successor of such member, if any, is appointed in accordance with paragraph (2).
  (4) The Board shall select its President by a majority vote.
  (5)    (A) A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of the Board.
    (B) A majority of votes cast at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall determine a motion or election.
  (6) A member of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed by the Board from assessments collected under section 4809 of this title for reasonable expenses incurred in performing duties as a member of the Board.
  (b)    (1) The Board shall–
      (A) develop, at the initiative of the Board or other person, proposals for promotion, research, and consumer information plans and projects;
      (B) submit such plans and projects to the Secretary for approval;
      (C) administer the order, in accordance with the order and this chapter;
      (D) prescribe such rules as are necessary to carry out such order;
      (E) receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of such order;
      (F) make recommendations to the Secretary with respect to amendments to such order; and
      (G) employ a staff and conduct routine business.
    (2) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary, for the approval of the Secretary, a budget for each fiscal year of anticipated expenses and disbursements of the Board in the administration of the order, including the projected cost of–
      (A) any promotion, research or consumer information plan or project to be conducted by the Board directly or by way of contract or agreement; and
      (B) the budgets, plans, or projects for which State associations are to receive funds pursuant to section 4809(c)(1) of this title.
    (3) No plan, project, or budget referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) may become effective unless approved by the Secretary.
    (4)      (A) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may enter into contracts or agreements with a person for–
        (i) the development and conduct of activities authorized under an order; and
        (ii) the payment of the cost thereof with funds collected through assessments under such order.
      (B) Such contract or agreement shall require that–
        (i) the contracting party develop and submit to the Board a plan or project, together with a budget or budgets that include the estimated cost to be incurred under such plan or project;
        (ii) such plan or project become effective on the approval of the Secretary; and
        (iii) the contracting party–
          (I) keep accurate records of all relevant transactions of the party;
          (II) make periodic reports to the Board of–
            (aa) relevant activities the party has conducted; and
            (bb) an accounting for funds received and expended under such contract; and
          (III) make such other reports as the Secretary or Board may require.
