   As used in this chapter–
  (1) Agricultural commodity
     The term ””agricultural commodity““ means any agricultural commodity, food, feed, fiber, or livestock (including livestock as it is defined in section 1471(2) of this title and insects), and any product thereof.
  (2) Developing country
     The term ””developing country““ means a country that–
    (A) has a shortage of foreign exchange earnings and has difficulty accessing sufficient commercial credit to meet all of its food needs, as determined by the Secretary; and
    (B) has the potential to become a commercial market for agricultural commodities.
  (3) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (4) Service
     The term ””Service““ means the Foreign Agricultural Service of the Department of Agriculture.
  (5) Unfair trade practice
    (A) In general
       Subject to subparagraph (B), the term ””unfair trade practice““ means any act, policy, or practice of a foreign country that–
      (i) violates, or is inconsistent with, the provisions of, or otherwise denies benefits to the United States under, any trade agreement to which the United States is a party; or
      (ii) is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts United States commerce.
    (B) Consistency with 1974 Trade Act
       Nothing in this chapter may be construed to authorize the Secretary to make any determination regarding an unfair trade practice that is inconsistent with section 2411 of title 19.
  (6) United States
     The term ””United States““ includes each of the States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
  (7) United States agricultural commodity
     The term ””United States agricultural commodity““ means–
    (A) an agricultural commodity or product entirely produced in the United States; or
    (B) a product of an agricultural commodity–
      (i) 90 percent or more of the agricultural components of which by weight, excluding packaging and added water, is entirely produced in the United States; and
      (ii) that the Secretary determines to be a high value agricultural product.
     For purposes of this paragraph, fish entirely produced in the United States include fish harvested by a documented fishing vessel as defined in title 46 in waters that are not waters (including the territorial sea) of a foreign country.
  (8) Independent states of the former Soviet Union
     The term ””independent states of the former Soviet Union““ means the following: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
