  (a) Program required
     The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Secretary““) shall conduct a research program for the purpose of–
    (1) supporting basic and applied research and technology development in the area of plant genome structure and function;
    (2) providing United States leadership in biotechnology; and
    (3) providing crop varieties that may be cultivated profitably without negatively impacting the environment.
  (b) Competitive grants
     The Secretary may make competitive grants, for periods not to exceed five years, to State agricultural experiment stations, all colleges and universities, other research institutions and organizations, Federal agencies, private organizations or corporations, and individuals for research projects in the research areas identified in subsection (c) of this section.
  (c) Research areas
     Grants available under subsection (b) of this section shall be awarded in the following research areas:
    (1) Construction of plant genome maps.
    (2) Identification, characterization, transfer, and expression of genes of agricultural importance.
    (3) Technology development in the areas of plant genome mapping, sequencing, gene transfer, and data management.
    (4) Research on microorganisms associated with plants, such as plant pathogens and plant symbionts.
  (d) Plan for making grants
     Not later than 90 days after November 28, 1990, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a detailed plan for awarding grants under this section.
  (e) Coordination of efforts
     The Secretary shall coordinate activities under this section with related activities sponsored by the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Commerce.
  (f) Proprietary interests
     The Secretary shall require (when the Secretary considers it to be appropriate) licensing and patent agreements, copyright fees, royalties, or other fee arrangements on the sales of products and new uses, applications, technologies, or processes developed through assistance provided under this section.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 1996 and 1997 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
