  (a) Competitive specialized research and extension grants authorized
     The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the ””Secretary““) may make competitive grants to support research and extension activities specified in subsections (e), (f), and (g) of this section. The Secretary shall make the grants in consultation with the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board.
  (b) Administration
    (1) In general
       Except as otherwise provided in this section, paragraphs (1), (6), (7), and (11) of subsection (b) of section 450i of this title shall apply with respect to the making of grants under this section.
    (2) Use of task forces
       To facilitate the making of research and extension grants under this section in the research and extension areas specified in subsection (e) of this section, the Secretary may appoint a task force for each such area to make recommendations to the Secretary. The Secretary may not incur costs in excess of $1,000 for any fiscal year in connection with each task force established under this paragraph.
  (c) Matching funds required
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall require the recipient of a grant under this section to provide funds or in-kind support from non-Federal sources in an amount at least equal to the amount provided by the Federal Government.
    (2) Waiver authority
       The Secretary may waive the matching funds requirement specified in paragraph (1) with respect to a research project if the Secretary determines that–
      (A) the results of the project, while of particular benefit to a specific agricultural commodity, are likely to be applicable to agricultural commodities generally; or
      (B) the project involves a minor commodity, the project deals with scientifically important research, and the grant recipient is unable to satisfy the matching funds requirement.
  (d) Partnerships encouraged
     Following the completion of a peer review process for grant proposals received under this section, the Secretary may provide a priority to those grant proposals, found in the peer review process to be scientifically meritorious, that involve the cooperation of multiple entities.
  (e) High-priority research and extension areas
    (1) Brown citrus aphid and citrus tristeza virus research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of–
      (A) developing methods to control or eradicate the brown citrus aphid and the citrus tristeza virus from citrus crops grown in the United States; or
      (B) adapting citrus crops grown in the United States to the brown citrus aphid and the citrus tristeza virus.
    (2) Ethanol research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of carrying out or enhancing research on ethanol derived from agricultural crops as an alternative fuel source.
    (3) Aflatoxin research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of identifying and controlling aflatoxin in the food and feed chains.
    (4) Mesquite research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of developing enhanced production methods and commercial uses of mesquite.
    (5) Prickly pear research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of investigating enhanced genetic selection and processing techniques of prickly pears.
    (6) Deer tick ecology research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of studying the population ecology of deer ticks and other insects and pests that transmit Lyme disease.
    (7) Red meat safety research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of developing–
      (A) intervention strategies that reduce microbial contamination on carcass surfaces;
      (B) microbiological mapping of carcass surfaces; and
      (C) model hazard analysis and critical control point plans.
    (8) Grain sorghum ergot research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of developing techniques for the eradication of sorghum ergot.
    (9) Peanut market enhancement research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of evaluating the economics of applying innovative technologies for peanut processing in a commercial environment.
    (10) Dairy financial risk management research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of providing research, development, or education materials, information, and outreach programs regarding risk management strategies for dairy producers and for dairy cooperatives and other processors and marketers of milk.
    (11) Cotton research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of improving pest management, fiber quality enhancement, economic assessment, textile production, and optimized production systems for short staple cotton.
    (12) Methyl bromide research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of–
      (A) developing and evaluating chemical and nonchemical alternatives, and use and emission reduction strategies, for pre-planting and post-harvest uses of methyl bromide; and
      (B) transferring the results of the research for use by agricultural producers.
    (13) Potato research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of developing and evaluating new strains of potatoes that are resistant to blight and other diseases, as well as insects. Emphasis may be placed on developing potato varieties that lend themselves to innovative marketing approaches.
    (14) Wood use research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of developing new uses for wood from underused tree species as well as investigating methods of modifying wood and wood fibers to produce better building materials.
    (15) Low-bush blueberry research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of evaluating methods of propagating and developing low-bush blueberry as a marketable crop.
    (16) Wetlands use research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of better use of wetlands in diverse ways to provide various economic, agricultural, and environmental benefits.
    (17) Wild pampas grass control, management, and eradication research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of control, management, and eradication of wild pampas grass.
    (18) Food safety, including pathogen detection and limitation, research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of increasing food safety, including the identification of advanced detection and processing methods to limit the presence of pathogens (including hepatitis A and E. coli 0157:H7) in domestic and imported foods.
    (19) Financial risk management research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of providing research, development, or education materials, information, and outreach programs regarding financial risk management strategies for agricultural producers and for cooperatives and other processors and marketers of any agricultural commodity.
    (20) Ornamental tropical fish research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of meeting the needs of commercial producers of ornamental tropical fish and aquatic plants for improvements in the areas of fish reproduction, health, nutrition, predator control, water use, water quality control, and farming technology.
    (21) Sheep scrapie research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of investigating the genetic aspects of scrapie in sheep.
    (22) Gypsy moth research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of developing biological control, management, and eradication methods against nonnative insects, including Lymantria dispar (commonly known as the ””gypsy moth““), that contribute to significant agricultural, economic, or environmental harm.
    (23) Forestry research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section to develop and distribute new, high-quality, science-based information for the purpose of improving the long-term productivity of forest resources and contributing to forest-based economic development by addressing such issues as–
      (A) forest land use policies;
      (B) multiple-use forest management, including wildlife habitat development, improved forest regeneration systems, and timber supply; and
      (C) improved development, manufacturing, and marketing of forest products.
    (24) Tomato spotted wilt virus research and extension
       Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purpose of control, management, and eradication of tomato spotted wilt virus.
  (f) Imported fire ant control, management, and eradication
    (1) Task force
       The Secretary shall establish a task force pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of this section regarding the control, management, and eradication of imported fire ants. The Secretary shall solicit and evaluate grant proposals under this subsection in consultation with the task force.
    (2) Initial grants
      (A) Request for proposals
         The Secretary shall publish a request for proposals for grants for research or demonstration projects related to the control, management, and possible eradication of imported fire ants.
      (B) Selection
         Not later than 1 year after the date of publication of the request for proposals, the Secretary shall evaluate the grant proposals submitted in response to the request and may select meritorious research or demonstration projects related to the control, management, and possible eradication of imported fire ants to receive an initial grant under this subsection.
    (3) Subsequent grants
      (A) Evaluation of initial grants
         If the Secretary awards grants under paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary shall evaluate all of the research or demonstration projects conducted under the grants for their use as the basis of a national plan for the control, management, and possible eradication of imported fire ants by the Federal Government, State and local governments, and owners and operators of land.
      (B) Selection
         On the basis of the evaluation under subparagraph (A), the Secretary may select the projects that the Secretary considers most promising for additional research or demonstration related to preparation of a national plan for the control, management, and possible eradication of imported fire ants. The Secretary shall notify the task force of the projects selected under this subparagraph.
    (4) Selection and submission of national plan
      (A) Evaluation of subsequent grants
         If the Secretary awards grants under paragraph (3)(B), the Secretary shall evaluate all of the research or demonstration projects conducted under the grants for use as the basis of a national plan for the control, management, and possible eradication of imported fire ants by the Federal Government, State and local governments, and owners and operators of land.
      (B) Selection
         On the basis of the evaluation under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall select 1 project funded under paragraph (3)(B), or a combination of those projects, for award of a grant for final preparation of the national plan.
      (C) Submission
         The Secretary shall submit to Congress the final national plan prepared under subparagraph (B) for the control, management, and possible eradication of imported fire ants.
  (g) Formosan termite research and eradication
    (1) Research program
       The Secretary may make competitive research grants under this subsection to regional and multijurisdictional entities, local government planning organizations, and local governments for the purpose of conducting research for the control, management, and possible eradication of Formosan termites in the United States.
    (2) Eradication program
       The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with regional and multijurisdictional entities, local government planning organizations, and local governments for the purposes of–
      (A) conducting projects for the control, management, and possible eradication of Formosan termites in the United States; and
      (B) collecting data on the effectiveness of the projects.
    (3) Funding priority
       In allocating funds made available to carry out paragraph (2), the Secretary shall provide a higher priority for regions or locations with the highest historical rates of infestation of Formosan termites.
    (4) Management coordination
       The program management of research grants, cooperative agreements, and projects under this subsection shall be conducted under existing authority in coordination with the national formosan \1\N termite management and research demonstration program conducted by the Agricultural Research Service.
  (h) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2002.
