  (a) Purposes
     The purposes of the national centers for agricultural product quality research shall be to–
    (1) serve as regional or commodity specific agricultural product quality research and education focal points involving one or more university and Federal participants;
    (2) take advantage of opportunities, and establish linkages between universities and other entities with expertise, in basic biology and engineering, the development of new technology, the application of technology to practice, and related quality assurance and regulatory activities;
    (3) develop and enhance explicit relationships (including the possible sharing of the cost of center operations) between the research and development community, the Department, and other Federal agencies, and with all aspects of the involved industries;
    (4) provide a mechanism for dealing with the safety and wholesomeness of new food products and processes that use biotechnology (including transgenic plants and animals);
    (5) enhance agricultural competitiveness through product quality research and technology implementation;
    (6) provide factual public information about agricultural product quality and wholesomeness on a continuing basis; and
    (7) where appropriate, build on existing institutional strengths and commitments to address issues relating to agricultural product quality and wholesomeness and on demonstrated capability to effectively link with operational units of the Department, other Federal agencies, and private industry.
  (b) Characteristics of centers
    (1) Regional basis
       The centers shall be regionally based units that conduct a broad spectrum of research, development, and education programs to enhance the competitiveness, quality, safety and wholesomeness of agricultural products.
    (2) Research approach
       The centers shall involve multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches to the development of new knowledge and technology. The centers may include multi-institutional linkages between universities or related Federal laboratories.
    (3) Management
       The centers shall serve as a management focal point for grants that deal with agricultural product quality research, extension, and teaching, including the provision of mechanisms for sharing resources between cooperating institutions and laboratories.
    (4) Research linkages
       Appropriate linkages within the centers shall include related efforts in agriculture, medicine, veterinary medicine, public health, engineering and related life and physical sciences, and social sciences dealing with health related behavior.
    (5) Research scope
       Each center shall conduct research and education on the full spectrum of production, processing, transportation, and marketing for commodity classes, such as animals (including animal products and animal feed), agronomic crops, and horticultural crops.
  (c) Establishment of centers
    (1) Establishment
       Notwithstanding subsection (g)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall establish not more than four centers.
    (2) Operating grants
       The Secretary shall make grants to operate the centers established under paragraph (1). Such grants shall be competitively awarded based on merit and relevance in reference to meeting the purposes specified in subsection (a) of this section. Such grants may be awarded for periods of up to five years and may be renewed in competition with demonstration of adequate performance. The Secretary shall give preference to proposals that demonstrate linkages with action agencies of the Department, with other related Federal research laboratories and agencies, and with private industry.
    (3) Primary institution in center
       The primary institution involved in a center shall be a land-grant college with other cooperating or collaborating academic institutions, nonprofit research and development entities, and Federal laboratories. A center may involve institutions or laboratories in more than one State.
    (4) Matching funds
       The non-Federal sponsors of a center shall contribute an amount of funds for operation of the center equal to not less than the amount awarded by the Federal Government.
  (d) Program plan and review
    (1) Plan
       A program plan shall be developed by the Department after obtaining the advice of representative users of the centers, including both action agencies and appropriate representatives from various segments of the food industry.
    (2) Review
       Accomplishments and directions of the centers shall be reviewed by the Department on a periodic basis.
  (e) Limitation on use of funds
     Funds provided under this section may not be used for the planning, repair, rehabilitation, acquisition, or construction of a building or facility.
  (f) Definitions
     For purposes of this section:
    (1) The term ””center““ means a national center for agricultural product quality research established under this section.
    (2) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (3) The term ””Department““ means the Department of Agriculture.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
    (1) There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as may be necessary to carry out this section for each of the fiscal years 1991 through 1997.
    (2) The centers shall be funded through the Cooperative State Research Service in the Department.
