   As used in this chapter:
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Lime Board provided for under section 6204(b) of this title.
  (2) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the use, nutritional attributes, and care of limes.
  (3) Handle
     The term ””handle““ means to sell, purchase, or package limes.
  (4) Handler
     The term ””handler““ means any person in the business of handling limes.
  (5) Importer
     The term ””importer““ means any person who imports limes into the United States.
  (6) Lime
     The term ””lime““ means the fruit of a citrus latifolia tree for the fresh market.
  (7) Marketing
     The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition of limes in commerce.
  (8) Order
     The term ””order““ means a lime research, promotion, and consumer information order issued by the Secretary under section 6203(a) of this title.
  (9) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or other legal entity.
  (10) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means any person who produces limes in the United States for sale in commerce.
  (11) Producer-handler
     The term ””producer-handler““ means any person who is both a producer and handler of limes.
  (12) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action taken under this chapter (including paid advertising) to present a favorable image for limes to the general public with the express intent of improving the competitive position and stimulating the sale of limes.
  (13) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of research relating to the use and nutritional value of limes and designed to advance the image, desirability, marketability, or quality of limes.
  (14) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (15) State and United States
     The term–
    (A) ””State““ means each of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
    (B) ””United States““ means the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
