   As used in this chapter:
  (1) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means any action or program that provides information to consumers and other persons on appropriate uses under varied circumstances, and on the care and handling, of cut flowers or cut greens.
  (2) Cut flowers and cut greens
    (A) In general
      (i) Cut flowers
         The term ””cut flowers““ includes all flowers cut from growing plants that are used as fresh-cut flowers and that are produced under cover or in field operations.
      (ii) Cut greens
         The term ””cut greens““ includes all cultivated or noncultivated decorative foliage cut from growing plants that are used as fresh-cut decorative foliage (except Christmas trees) and that are produced under cover or in field operations.
      (iii) Exclusions
         The terms ””cut flowers““ and ””cut greens““ do not include a foliage plant, floral supply, or flowering plant.
    (B) Substantial portion
       In any case in which a handler packages cut flowers or cut greens with hard goods in an article (such as a gift basket or similar presentation) for sale to a retailer, the PromoFlor Council may determine, under procedures specified in the order, that the cut flowers or cut greens in the article do not constitute a substantial portion of the value of the article and that, based on the determination, the article shall not be treated as an article of cut flowers or cut greens subject to assessment under the order.
  (3) Gross sales price
     The term ””gross sales price““ means the total amount of the transaction in a sale of cut flowers or cut greens from a handler to a retailer or exempt handler.
  (4) Handler
    (A) Qualified handler
      (i) In general
         The term ””qualified handler““ means a person (including a cooperative) operating in the cut flowers or cut greens marketing system–
        (I) that sells domestic or imported cut flowers or cut greens to retailers and exempt handlers; and
        (II) whose annual sales of cut flowers and cut greens to retailers and exempt handlers are $750,000 or more.
      (ii) Inclusions and exclusions
        (I) In general
           The term ””qualified handler““ includes–
          (aa) bouquet manufacturers (subject to paragraph (2)(B));
          (bb) an auction house that clears the sale of cut flowers and cut greens to retailers and exempt handlers through a central clearinghouse; and
          (cc) a distribution center that is owned or controlled by a retailer if the predominant retail business activity of the retailer is floral sales.
        (II) Transfers
           For the purpose of determining sales of cut flowers and cut greens to a retailer from a distribution center described in subclause (I)(cc), each non-sale transfer to a retailer shall be treated as a sale in an amount calculated as provided in subparagraph (C).
        (III) Transportation or delivery
           The term ””qualified handler““ does not include a person who only physically transports or delivers cut flowers or cut greens.
      (iii) Construction
        (I) In general
           The term ””qualified handler““ includes an importer or producer that sells cut flowers or cut greens that the importer or producer has imported into the United States or produced, respectively, directly to consumers and whose sales of the cut flowers and cut greens (as calculated under subparagraph (C)), together with sales of cut flowers and cut greens to retailers or exempt handlers, annually are $750,000 or more.
        (II) Sales
           Each direct sale to a consumer by a qualified handler described in subclause (I) shall be treated as a sale to a retailer or exempt handler in an amount calculated as provided in subparagraph (C).
        (III) Definitions
           As used in this paragraph:
          (aa) Importer
             The term ””importer““ has the meaning provided in section 6804(b)(2)(B)(i)(I) of this title.
          (bb) Producer
             The term ””producer““ has the meaning provided in section 6804(b)(2)(B)(ii)(I) of this title.
    (B) Exempt handler
       The term ””exempt handler““ means a person who would otherwise be considered to be a qualified handler, except that the annual sales by the person of cut flowers and cut greens to retailers and other exempt handlers are less than $750,000.
    (C) Annual sales determined
      (i) In general
         Except as provided in clause (ii), for the purpose of determining the amount of annual sales of cut flowers and cut greens under subparagraphs (A) and (B), the amount of a sale shall be determined on the basis of the gross sales price of the cut flowers and cut greens sold.
      (ii) Transfers
        (I) Non-sale transfers and direct sales by importers
           Subject to subclause (III), in the case of a non-sale transfer of cut flowers or cut greens from a distribution center (as described in subparagraph (A)(ii)(II)), or a direct sale to a consumer by an importer (as described in subparagraph (A)(iii)), the amount of the sale shall be equal to the sum of–
          (aa) the price paid by the distribution center or importer, respectively, to acquire the cut flowers or cut greens; and
          (bb) an amount determined by multiplying the acquisition price referred to in item (aa) by a uniform percentage established by an order to represent the mark-up of a wholesale handler on a sale to a retailer.
        (II) Direct sales by producers
           Subject to subclause (III), in the case of a direct sale to a consumer by a producer (as described in subparagraph (A)(iii)), the amount of the sale shall be equal to an amount determined by multiplying the price paid by the consumer by a uniform percentage established by an order to represent the cost of producing the article and the mark-up of a wholesale handler on a sale to a retailer.
        (III) Changes in uniform percentages
           Any change in a uniform percentage referred to in subclause (I) or (II) may become effective after–
          (aa) recommendation by the PromoFlor Council; and
          (bb) approval by the Secretary after public notice and opportunity for comment in accordance with section 553 of title 5 and without regard to sections 556 and 557 of such title.
  (5) Order
     The term ””order““ means an order issued under this chapter (other than sections 6808, 6809, and 6811 of this title).
  (6) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, firm, partnership, corporation, joint stock company, association, society, cooperative, or other legal entity.
  (7) PromoFlor Council
     The term ””PromoFlor Council““ means the Fresh Cut Flowers and Fresh Cut Greens Promotion Council established under section 6804(b) of this title.
  (8) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action determined by the Secretary to advance the image, desirability, or marketability of cut flowers or cut greens, including paid advertising.
  (9) Research
     The term ””research““ means market research and studies limited to the support of advertising, market development, and other promotion efforts and consumer information efforts relating to cut flowers or cut greens, including educational activities.
  (10) Retailer
    (A) In general
       The term ””retailer““ means a person (such as a retail florist, supermarket, mass market retail outlet, or other end-use seller), as described in an order, that sells cut flowers or cut greens to consumers, and a distribution center described in subparagraph (B)(i).
    (B) Distribution centers
      (i) In general
         The term ””retailer““ includes a distribution center that is–
        (I) owned or controlled by a person described in subparagraph (A), or owned or controlled cooperatively by a group of the persons, if the predominant retail business activity of the person is not floral sales; or
        (II) independently owned but operated primarily to provide food products to retail stores.
      (ii) Importers and producers
         An independently owned distribution center described in clause (i)(II) that also is an importer or producer of cut flowers or cut greens shall be subject to the rules of construction specified in paragraph (4)(A)(iii) and, for the purpose of the rules of construction, be considered to be the seller of the articles directly to the consumer.
  (11) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (12) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau (until such time as the Compact of Free Association is ratified).
  (13) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the States collectively.
