  (a) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Beginning farmer or rancher
       The term ””beginning farmer or rancher““ has the meaning given the term in section 1991(a) of this title.
    (2) Office
       The term ””Office““ means the Office of Advocacy and Outreach established under this section.
    (3) Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher
       The term ””socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher““ has the meaning given the term in section 2279(e) of this title.
  (b) Establishment and purpose
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall establish within the executive operations of the Department an office to be known as the ””Office of Advocacy and Outreach““–
      (A) to improve access to programs of the Department; and
      (B) to improve the viability and profitability of–
        (i) small farms and ranches;
        (ii) beginning farmers or ranchers; and
        (iii) socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.
    (2) Director
       The Office shall be headed by a Director, to be appointed by the Secretary from among the competitive service.
  (c) Duties
     The duties of the Office shall be to ensure small farms and ranches, beginning farmers or ranchers, and socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers access to, and equitable participation in, programs and services of the Department by–
    (1) establishing and monitoring the goals and objectives of the Department to increase participation in programs of the Department by small, beginning, or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers;
    (2) assessing the effectiveness of Department outreach programs;
    (3) developing and implementing a plan to coordinate outreach activities and services provided by the Department;
    (4) providing input to the agencies and offices on programmatic and policy decisions;
    (5) measuring outcomes of the programs and activities of the Department on small farms and ranches, beginning farmers or ranchers, and socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers programs;
    (6) recommending new initiatives and programs to the Secretary; and
    (7) carrying out any other related duties that the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
  (d) Socially disadvantaged farmers group
    (1) Establishment
       The Secretary shall establish within the Office the Socially Disadvantaged Farmers Group.
    (2) Outreach and assistance
       The Socially Disadvantaged Farmers Group–
      (A) shall carry out section 2279 of this title; and
      (B) in the case of activities described in section 2279(a) of this title, may conduct such activities through other agencies and offices of the Department.
    (3) Socially disadvantaged farmers and farmworkers
       The Socially Disadvantaged Farmers Group shall oversee the operations of–
      (A) the Advisory Committee on Minority Farmers established under section 14009 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008; \1\N and
      (B) the position of Farmworker Coordinator established under subsection (f).
    (4) Other duties
      (A) In general
         The Socially Disadvantaged Farmers Group may carry out other duties to improve access to, and participation in, programs of the Department by socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers, as determined by the Secretary.
      (B) Office of Outreach and Diversity
         The Office of Advocacy and Outreach shall carry out the functions and duties of the Office of Outreach and Diversity carried out by the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights as such functions and duties existed immediately before the date of the enactment of this section.
  (e) Small Farms and Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Group
    (1) Establishment
       The Secretary shall establish within the Office the Small Farms and Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Group.
    (2) Duties
      (A) Oversee offices
         The Small Farms and Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Group shall oversee the operations of the Office of Small Farms Coordination established by Departmental Regulation 9700–1 (August 3, 2006).
      (B) Beginning farmer and rancher development program
         The Small Farms and Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Group shall consult with the National Institute for Food and Agriculture on the administration of the beginning farmer and rancher development program established under section 3319f of this title.
      (C) Advisory Committee for Beginning Farmers and Ranchers
         The Small Farms and Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Group shall coordinate the activities of the Group with the Advisory Committee for Beginning Farmers and Ranchers established under section 5(b) of the Agricultural Credit Improvement Act of 1992 (7 U.S.C. 1621 \1\ note; Public Law 102–554).
      (D) Other duties
         The Small Farms and Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Group may carry out other duties to improve access to, and participation in, programs of the Department by small farms and ranches and beginning farmers or ranchers, as determined by the Secretary.
  (f) Farmworker Coordinator
    (1) Establishment
       The Secretary shall establish within the Office the position of Farmworker Coordinator (referred to in this subsection as the ””Coordinator““).
    (2) Duties
       The Secretary shall delegate to the Coordinator responsibility for the following:
      (A) Assisting in administering the program established by section 5177a of title 42.
      (B) Serving as a liaison to community-based nonprofit organizations that represent and have demonstrated experience serving low-income migrant and seasonal farmworkers.
      (C) Coordinating with the Department, other Federal agencies, and State and local governments to ensure that farmworker needs are assessed and met during declared disasters and other emergencies.
      (D) Consulting within the Office and with other entities to better integrate farmworker perspectives, concerns, and interests into the ongoing programs of the Department.
      (E) Consulting with appropriate institutions on research, program improvements, or agricultural education opportunities that assist low-income and migrant seasonal farmworkers.
      (F) Assisting farmworkers in becoming agricultural producers or landowners.
    (3) Authorization of appropriations
       There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this subsection for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012.
