   As used in this chapter (unless the context clearly requires otherwise):
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the National Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information Board established under section 7104(b) of this title.
  (2) Carbonized wool
     The term ””carbonized wool““ means wool that has been immersed in a bath, usually of mineral acids or acid salts, that destroys vegetable matter in the wool, but does not affect the wool fibres.
  (3) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means nutritional data and other information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, or use of sheep products.
  (4) Customs Service
     The term ””Customs Service““ means United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury.
  (5) Degreased wool
     The term ””degreased wool““ means wool from which the bulk of impurities has been removed by processing.
  (6) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the United States Department of Agriculture.
  (7) Education
     The term ””education““ means activities providing information relating to the sheep industry or sheep products to producers, feeders, importers, consumers, and other persons.
  (8) Executive Committee
     The term ””Executive Committee““ means the Executive Committee established under section 7104(g) of this title.
  (9) Exporter
     The term ””exporter““ means any person who exports domestic live sheep or greasy wool from the United States.
  (10) Feeder
     The term ””feeder““ means a person who feeds lambs until the lambs reach slaughter weight.
  (11) Greasy wool
     The term ””greasy wool““ means wool that has not been washed or otherwise cleaned.
  (12) Handler
     The term ””handler““ means any person who purchases and markets greasy wool.
  (13) Importer
     The term ””importer““ means any person who imports sheep or sheep products into the United States.
  (14) Industry information
     The term ””industry information““ means information and programs that will lead to increased efficiency in processing and the development of new markets, marketing strategies, increased marketing efficiency, and activities to enhance the image of sheep or sheep products on a national or international basis.
  (15) Order
     The term ””order““ means a sheep and wool promotion, research, education, and information order issued under section 7103 of this title.
  (16) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
  (17) Processor
     The term ””processor““ means any person who slaughters sheep or processes greasy wool into degreased wool.
  (18) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means any person, other than a feeder, who owns or acquires ownership of sheep.
  (19) Producer information
     The term ””producer information““ means activities designed to provide producers, feeders, and importers with information relating to production or marketing efficiencies or developments, program activities, or other information that would facilitate an increase in the consumption of sheep or sheep products.
  (20) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action (including paid advertising) to advance the image and desirability of sheep or sheep products to improve the competitive position, and stimulate sales, of sheep products in the domestic and international marketplace.
  (21) Pulled wool
     The term ””pulled wool““ means wool that is pulled from the skin of a slaughtered sheep.
  (22) Qualified State sheep board
     The term ””qualified State sheep board““ means a sheep and wool promotion entity that–
    (A) is authorized by State statute or is otherwise organized and operating within a State;
    (B) receives voluntary contributions or dues and conducts promotion, research, or consumer information programs with respect to sheep or wool, or both; and
    (C) is recognized by the Board as the sheep and wool promotion entity within the State;
     except that not more than 1 qualified State sheep board shall exist in any State at any 1 time.
  (23) Raw wool
     The term ””raw wool““ means greasy wool, pulled wool, degreased wool, or carbonized wool.
  (24) Research
     The term ””research““ means development projects and studies relating to the production (including the feeding of sheep), processing, distribution, or use of sheep or sheep products to encourage, expand, improve, or make more efficient the marketing of sheep or sheep products.
  (25) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (26) Sheep
     The term ””sheep““ means ovine animals of any age, including lambs.
  (27) Sheep products
     The term ””sheep products““ means products produced, in whole or in part, from sheep, including wool and products containing wool fiber.
  (28) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the 50 States.
  (29) Unit
     The term ””unit““ means each State, group of States, or class designation that is represented on the Board.
  (30) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
  (31) Wool
     The term ””wool““ means the fiber from the fleece of a sheep.
  (32) Wool products
     The term ””wool products““ means products produced, in whole or in part, from wool and products containing wool fiber.
