  (a) Offer and terms
     The Secretary shall offer to enter into a production flexibility contract with an eligible owner or producer described in subsection (b) of this section on a farm containing eligible cropland. Under the terms of a contract, the owner or producer shall agree, in exchange for annual contract payments, to–
    (1) comply with applicable conservation requirements under subtitle B of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.);
    (2) comply with applicable wetland protection requirements under subtitle C of title XII of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3821 et seq.);
    (3) comply with the planting flexibility requirements of section 7218 of this title; and
    (4) use the land subject to the contract for an agricultural or related activity, but not for a nonagricultural commercial or industrial use, as determined by the Secretary.
  (b) Eligible owners and producers described
     The following producers and owners shall be eligible to enter into a contract:
    (1) An owner of eligible cropland who assumes all or a part of the risk of producing a crop.
    (2) A producer (other than an owner) on eligible cropland with a share-rent lease of the eligible cropland, regardless of the length of the lease, if the owner enters into the same contract.
    (3) A producer (other than an owner) on eligible cropland who cash rents the eligible cropland under a lease expiring on or after September 30, 2002, in which case the owner is not required to enter into the contract.
    (4) A producer (other than an owner) on eligible cropland who cash rents the eligible cropland under a lease expiring before September 30, 2002. The owner of the eligible cropland may also enter into the same contract. If the producer elects to enroll less than 100 percent of the eligible cropland in the contract, the consent of the owner is required.
    (5) An owner of eligible cropland who cash rents the eligible cropland and the lease term expires before September 30, 2002, if the tenant declines to enter into a contract. In the case of an owner covered by this paragraph, contract payments shall not begin under a contract until the lease held by the tenant ends.
    (6) An owner or producer described in any preceding paragraph regardless of whether the owner or producer purchased catastrophic risk protection for a 1996 crop under section 1508(b) of this title.
  (c) Tenants and sharecroppers
     In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers.
  (d) Eligible cropland described
     Land shall be considered to be cropland eligible for coverage under a contract only if the land has contract acreage attributable to the land and–
    (1) for at least 1 of the 1991 through 1995 crops, at least a portion of the land was enrolled in the acreage reduction program authorized for a crop of a contract commodity under section 101B, 103B, 105B, or 107B of the Agricultural Act of 1949 or was considered planted;
    (2) was subject to a conservation reserve contract under section 1231 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) whose term expired, or was voluntarily terminated, on or after January 1, 1995; or
    (3) is released from coverage under a conservation reserve contract by the Secretary during the period beginning on January 1, 1995, and ending on the date specified in section 7212(a)(2) of this title.
  (e) Quantity of eligible cropland covered by contract
     Subject to subsection (b)(4) of this section, an owner or producer may enroll as contract acreage all or a portion of the eligible cropland on the farm.
  (f) Voluntary reduction in contract acreage
     Subject to subsection (b)(4) of this section, an owner or producer who enters into a contract may subsequently reduce the quantity of contract acreage covered by the contract.
