  (a) Time for contracting
    (1) Commencement
       To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall commence entering into contracts not later than 45 days after April 4, 1996.
    (2) Deadline
       Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary may not enter into a contract after August 1, 1996.
    (3) Conservation reserve lands
      (A) In general
         At the beginning of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall allow an eligible owner or producer on a farm covered by a conservation reserve contract entered into under section 3831 of title 16 that terminates after the date specified in paragraph (2) to enter into or expand a production flexibility contract to cover the contract acreage of the farm that was subject to the former conservation reserve contract.
      (B) Amount
         Contract payments made for contract acreage under this paragraph shall be made at the rate and amount applicable to the annual contract payment level for the applicable crop. For the fiscal year in which the conservation reserve contract is terminated, the owner or producer subject to the production flexibility contract may elect to receive either contract payments or a prorated payment under the conservation reserve contract, but not both.
  (b) Duration of contract
    (1) Beginning date
       The term of a contract shall begin with–
      (A) the 1996 crop of a contract commodity; or
      (B) in the case of acreage that was subject to a conservation reserve contract described in subsection (a)(3) of this section, the date the production flexibility contract was entered into or expanded to cover the acreage.
    (2) Ending date
       The term of a contract shall extend through the 2002 crop, unless earlier terminated by the owner or producer.
  (c) Estimation of contract payments
     At the time the Secretary enters into a contract, the Secretary shall provide an estimate of the minimum contract payments anticipated to be made during at least the first fiscal year for which contract payments will be made.
  (d) Time for payment
    (1) In general
       An annual contract payment shall be made not later than September 30 of each of fiscal years 1996 through 2002.
    (2) Advance payments
      (A) Fiscal year 1996
         At the option of the owner or producer, 50 percent of the contract payment for fiscal year 1996 shall be made not later than 30 days after the date on which the contract is entered into and approved by the Secretary and the owner or producer.
      (B) Subsequent fiscal years
         At the option of the owner or producer for fiscal year 1997 and each subsequent fiscal year, 50 percent of the annual contract payment shall be made on December 15 or January 15 of the fiscal year. The owner or producer may change the date selected under this subparagraph for a subsequent fiscal year by providing advance notice to the Secretary.
    (3) Special rule for fiscal year 1999
       Notwithstanding the requirements for making an annual contract payment specified in paragraphs (1) and (2), at the option of the owner or producer, the Secretary shall pay the full amount (or such portion as the owner or producer may specify) of the contract payment required to be paid for fiscal year 1999 at such time or times during that fiscal year as the owner or producer may specify.
