  (a) Membership
     An order issued by the Secretary under section 7463 of this title shall provide for the establishment of a National Kiwifruit Board that consists of the following 11 members:
    (1) 6 members who are producers (or representatives of producers) and who are not exempt from an assessment under section 7465(b) of this title.
    (2) 4 members who are importers (or representatives of importers) and who are not exempt from an assessment under section 7465(b) of this title or are exporters (or representatives of exporters).
    (3) 1 member appointed from the general public.
  (b) Adjustment of membership
    (1) In general
       Subject to the 11-member limit and to paragraph (2), the Secretary may adjust membership on the Board to accommodate changes in production and import levels of kiwifruit.
    (2) Number of producer members
       Producers shall comprise not less than 51 percent of the membership of the Board.
  (c) Appointment and nomination
    (1) Appointment
       The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board from nominations submitted in accordance with this subsection.
    (2) Producers
       The members referred to in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall be appointed from individuals nominated by producers.
    (3) Importers and exporters
       The members referred to in subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be appointed from individuals nominated by importers or exporters.
    (4) Public representative
       The public representative shall be appointed from nominations submitted by other members of the Board.
    (5) Failure to nominate
       If producers, importers, and exporters fail to nominate individuals for appointment, the Secretary may appoint members and alternates on a basis provided for in the order. If the Board fails to nominate a public representative, the member may be appointed by the Secretary without a nomination.
  (d) Alternates
     The Secretary shall appoint an alternate for each member of the Board. An alternate shall–
    (1) be appointed in the same manner as the member for whom the individual is an alternate; and
    (2) serve on the Board if the member is absent from a meeting or is disqualified under subsection (f) of this section.
  (e) Terms
     A member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of 3 years. No member may serve more than 2 consecutive 3-year terms, except that of the members first appointed–
    (1) 5 members shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and
    (2) 6 members shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.
  (f) Disqualification
     If a member or alternate of the Board who was appointed as a producer, importer, exporter, or public representative member ceases to belong to the group for which the member was appointed, the member or alternate shall be disqualified from serving on the Board.
  (g) Compensation
     A member or alternate of the Board shall serve without pay.
  (h) General powers and duties
     The Board shall–
    (1) administer an order issued by the Secretary under section 7463 of this title, and an amendment to the order, in accordance with the order and amendment and this subchapter;
    (2) prescribe rules and regulations to carry out the order;
    (3) meet, organize, and select from among members of the Board a chairperson, other officers, and committees and subcommittees, as the Board determines appropriate;
    (4) receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary accounts of violations of the order;
    (5) make recommendations to the Secretary with respect to an amendment that should be made to the order; and
    (6) employ or contract with a manager and staff to assist in administering the order, except that, to reduce administrative costs and increase efficiency, the Board shall seek, to the extent practicable, to employ or contract with personnel who are already associated with organizations involved in promoting kiwifruit that are chartered by a State, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
