   In this subchapter (unless the context otherwise requires):
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Popcorn Board established under section 7484(b) of this title.
  (2) Commerce
     The term ””commerce““ means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
  (3) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means information and programs that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of popcorn.
  (4) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the Department of Agriculture.
  (5) Industry information
     The term ””industry information““ means information or a program that will lead to the development of–
    (A) new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the popcorn industry; or
    (B) activities to enhance the image of the popcorn industry.
  (6) Marketing
     The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition of unpopped popcorn for human consumption in a channel of commerce, but does not include a sale or disposition to or between processors.
  (7) Order
     The term ””order““ means an order issued under section 7483 of this title.
  (8) Person
     The term ””person““ means an individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, or cooperative, or any other legal entity.
  (9) Popcorn
     The term ””popcorn““ means unpopped popcorn (Zea Mays L) that is–
    (A) commercially grown;
    (B) processed in the United States by shelling, cleaning, or drying; and
    (C) introduced into a channel of commerce.
  (10) Process
     The term ””process““ means to shell, clean, dry, and prepare popcorn for the market, but does not include packaging popcorn for the market without also engaging in another activity described in this paragraph.
  (11) Processor
     The term ””processor““ means a person engaged in the preparation of unpopped popcorn for the market who owns or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the popcorn and who processes and distributes over 4,000,000 pounds of popcorn in the market per year.
  (12) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means an action, including paid advertising, to enhance the image or desirability of popcorn.
  (13) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of study to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, product development, quality, or nutritional value of popcorn.
  (14) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (15) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
  (16) United States
     The term ””United States““ means all of the States.
