  (a) Initiative required
     The Secretary of Agriculture shall provide for a research initiative (to be known as the ””Thomas Jefferson Initiative for Crop Diversification““) for the purpose of conducting research and development, in cooperation with other public and private entities, on the production and marketing of new and nontraditional crops needed to strengthen and diversify the agricultural production base of the United States.
  (b) Research and education efforts
     The initiative shall include research and education efforts regarding new and nontraditional crops designed–
    (1) to identify and overcome agronomic barriers to profitable production;
    (2) to identify and overcome other production and marketing barriers; and
    (3) to develop processing and utilization technologies for new and nontraditional crops.
  (c) Purposes
     The purposes of the initiative are–
    (1) to develop a focused program of research and development at the regional and national levels to overcome barriers to the development of–
      (A) new crop opportunities for agricultural producers; and
      (B) related value-added enterprises in rural communities; and
    (2) to ensure a broad-based effort encompassing research, education, market development, and support of entrepreneurial activity leading to increased agricultural diversification.
  (d) Establishment of initiative
     The Secretary shall coordinate the initiative through a nonprofit center or institute that will coordinate research and education programs in cooperation with other public and private entities. The Secretary shall administer research and education grants made under this section.
  (e) Regional emphasis
    (1) Required
       The Secretary shall support development of multistate regional efforts in crop diversification.
    (2) Site-specific crop development efforts
       Of funding made available to carry out the initiative, not less than 50 percent shall be used for regional efforts centered at colleges and universities in order to facilitate site-specific crop development efforts.
  (f) Eligible grantee
     The Secretary may award funds under this section to colleges or universities, nonprofit organizations, public agencies, or individuals.
  (g) Administration
    (1) Grants and contracts
       Grants awarded through the initiative shall be selected on a competitive basis.
    (2) Private businesses
       The recipient of a grant may use a portion of the grant funds for standard contracts with private businesses, such as for test processing of a new or nontraditional crop.
    (3) Terms
       The term of a grant awarded through the initiative may not exceed 5 years.
    (4) Matching funds
       The Secretary shall require the recipient of a grant awarded through the initiative to contribute an amount of funds from non-Federal sources that is at least equal to the amount provided by the Federal Government.
  (h) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2002.
