  (a) In general
     Subject to the availability of funds pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall carry out a program to control grasshoppers and Mormon crickets on all Federal lands to protect rangeland.
  (b) Transfer authority
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (3), upon the request of the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Interior shall transfer to the Secretary of Agriculture, from any no-year appropriations, funds for the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on Federal lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior. The transferred funds shall be available only for the payment of obligations incurred on such Federal lands.
    (2) Transfer requests
       Requests for the transfer of funds pursuant to this subsection shall be made as promptly as possible by the Secretary.
    (3) Limitation
       Funds transferred pursuant to this subsection may not be used by the Secretary until funds specifically appropriated to the Secretary for grasshopper control have been exhausted.
    (4) Replenishment of transferred funds
       Funds transferred pursuant to this subsection shall be replenished by supplemental or regular appropriations, which shall be requested as promptly as possible.
  (c) Treatment for grasshoppers and Mormon crickets
    (1) In general
       Subject to the availability of funds pursuant to this section, on request of the administering agency or the agriculture department of an affected State, the Secretary, to protect rangeland, shall immediately treat Federal, State, or private lands that are infested with grasshoppers or Mormon crickets at levels of economic infestation, unless the Secretary determines that delaying treatment will not cause greater economic damage to adjacent owners of rangeland.
    (2) Other programs
       In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall work in conjunction with other Federal, State, and private prevention, control, or suppression efforts to protect rangeland.
  (d) Federal cost share of treatment
    (1) Control on Federal lands
       Out of funds made available or transferred under this section, the Secretary shall pay 100 percent of the cost of grasshopper or Mormon cricket control on Federal lands to protect rangeland.
    (2) Control on State lands
       Out of funds made available under this section, the Secretary shall pay 50 percent of the cost of grasshopper or Mormon cricket control on State lands.
    (3) Control on private lands
       Out of funds made available under this section, the Secretary shall pay 33.3 percent of the cost of grasshopper or Mormon cricket control on private lands.
  (e) Training
     From appropriated funds made available or transferred by the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of Agriculture for such purposes, the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide adequate funding for a program to train personnel to accomplish effectively the objective of this section.
