  (a) Consultation and consent
     In carrying out a grant under this subchapter, the weed management entity and the Secretary shall–
    (1) if the activities funded under the grant will take place on Federal land, consult with the heads of the Federal agencies having jurisdiction over the land; or
    (2) obtain the written consent of the non-Federal landowner.
  (b) Grant considerations
     In determining the amount of a grant to a weed management entity, the Secretary shall consider–
    (1) the severity or potential severity of the noxious weed problem;
    (2) the extent to which the Federal funds will be used to leverage non-Federal funds to address the noxious weed problem;
    (3) the extent to which the weed management entity has made progress in addressing the noxious weeds problem; and
    (4) other factors that the Secretary determines to be relevant.
  (c) Use of grant funds; cost shares
    (1) Use of grants
       A weed management entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall use the grant funds to carry out a project authorized by subsection (d) of this section for the control or eradication of a noxious weed.
    (2) Cost shares
      (A) Federal cost share
         The Federal share of the cost of carrying out an authorized project under this section exclusively on non-Federal land shall not exceed 50 percent.
      (B) Form of non-Federal cost share
         The non-Federal share of the cost of carrying out an authorized project under this section may be provided in cash or in kind.
  (d) Authorized projects
     Projects funded by grants under this section include the following:
    (1) Education, inventories and mapping, management, monitoring, methods development, and other capacity building activities, including the payment of the cost of personnel and equipment that promote control or eradication of noxious weeds.
    (2) Other activities to control or eradicate noxious weeds or promote control or eradication of noxious weeds.
  (e) Application
     To be eligible to receive assistance under this section, a weed management entity shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application containing such information as the Secretary shall by regulation require.
  (f) Selection of projects
     Projects funded under this section shall be selected by the Secretary on a competitive basis, taking into consideration the following:
    (1) The severity of the noxious weed problem or potential problem addressed by the project.
    (2) The likelihood that the project will prevent or resolve the problem, or increase knowledge about resolving similar problems.
    (3) The extent to which the Federal funds will leverage non-Federal funds to address the noxious weed problem addressed by the project.
    (4) The extent to which the program will improve the overall capacity of the United States to address noxious weed control and management.
    (5) The extent to which the weed management entity has made progress in addressing noxious weed problems.
    (6) The extent to which the project will provide a comprehensive approach to the control or eradication of noxious weeds.
    (7) The extent to which the project will reduce the total population of noxious weeds.
    (8) The extent to which the project promotes cooperation and participation between States that have common interests in controlling and eradicating noxious weeds.
    (9) Other factors that the Secretary determines to be relevant.
  (g) Regional, State, and local involvement
     In determining which projects receive funding under this section, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable–
    (1) rely on technical and merit reviews provided by regional, State, or local weed management experts; and
    (2) give priority to projects that maximize the involvement of State, local and, where applicable, Indian Tribe governments.
  (h) Special consideration
     The Secretary shall give special consideration to States with approved weed management entities established by Indian Tribes and may provide an additional allocation to a State to meet the particular needs and projects that the weed management entity plans to address.
