   As used in this chapter:
  (1) Board
     The terms ””Avocado Board““ and ””Board““ mean the Hass Avocado Board established under section 7804 of this title.
  (2) Conflict of interest
     The term ””conflict of interest““ means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person that performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
  (3) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means any action or program that provides information to consumers and other persons on the use, nutritional attributes, and other information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of Hass avocados.
  (4) Customs
     The term ””Customs““ means the United States Customs Service.
  (5) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the United States Department of Agriculture.
  (6) Hass avocado
    (A) In general
       The term ””Hass avocado““ includes–
      (i) the fruit of any Hass variety avocado tree; and
      (ii) any other type of avocado fruit that the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, determines is so similar to the Hass variety avocado as to be indistinguishable to consumers in fresh form.
    (B) Form of fruit
       Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the term includes avocado fruit described in subparagraph (A) whether in fresh, frozen, or any other processed form.
    (C) Exceptions
       In any case in which a handler further processes avocados described in subparagraph (A), or products of such avocados, for sale to a retailer, the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may determine that such further processed products do not constitute a substantial value of the product and that, based on its determination, the product shall not be treated as a product of Hass avocados subject to assessment under the order. In addition, the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may exempt certain frozen avocado products from assessment under the order.
  (7) Handler
    (A) First handler
       The term ””first handler““ means a person operating in the Hass avocados marketing system that sells domestic or imported Hass avocados for United States domestic consumption, and who is responsible for remitting assessments to the Board. The term includes an importer or producer who sells directly to consumers Hass avocados that the importer or producer has imported into the United States or produced, respectively.
    (B) Exempt handler
       The term ””exempt handler““ means a person who would otherwise be considered a first handler, except that all avocados purchased by the person have already been subject to the assessment under section 7804(h) of this title.
  (8) Importer
     The term ””importer““ means any person who imports Hass avocados into the United States.
  (9) Industry information
     The term ””industry information““ means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in processing, enhance the development of new markets and marketing strategies, increase marketing efficiency, and activities to enhance the image of Hass avocados and the Hass avocado industry domestically.
  (10) Order
     The term ””order““ means the Hass avocado promotion, research, and information order issued under this chapter.
  (11) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, firm, partnership, corporation, joint stock company, association, cooperative, or other legal entity.
  (12) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means any person who–
    (A) is engaged in the domestic production of Hass avocados for commercial use; and
    (B) owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss, of such Hass avocados.
  (13) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action to advance the image, desirability, or marketability of Hass avocados, including paid advertising, sales promotion, and publicity, in order to improve the competitive position and stimulate sales of Hass avocados in the domestic marketplace.
  (14) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of test, study, or analysis relating to market research, market development, and marketing efforts, or relating to the use, quality, or nutritional value of Hass avocados, other related food science research, or research designed to advance the image, desirability, and marketability of Hass avocados.
  (15) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (16) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
  (17) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the United States collectively.
