  (a) Payment required
    (1) In general
       During the 2002 through 2007 crop years for peanuts, the Secretary shall make counter-cyclical payments under this section with respect to peanuts if the Secretary determines that the effective price for peanuts is less than the target price for peanuts.
    (2) 2002 crop year
       If counter-cyclical payments are required for the 2002 crop year, the Secretary shall make the payments to historic peanut producers.
    (3) Subsequent crop years
       If counter-cyclical payments are required for any of the 2003 through 2007 crop years for peanuts, the Secretary shall make the payments to the producers on a farm to which a payment yield and base acres for peanuts are assigned under section 7952 of this title.
  (b) Effective price
     For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the effective price for peanuts is equal to the sum of the following:
    (1) The higher of the following:
      (A) The national average market price for peanuts received by producers during the 12-month marketing year for peanuts, as determined by the Secretary.
      (B) The national average loan rate for a marketing assistance loan for peanuts in effect for the applicable period under this subchapter.
    (2) The payment rate in effect under section 7953 of this title for the purpose of making direct payments.
  (c) Target price
     For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the target price for peanuts shall be equal to $495 per ton.
  (d) Payment rate
     The payment rate used to make counter-cyclical payments for a crop year shall be equal to the difference between–
    (1) the target price; and
    (2) the effective price determined under subsection (b) of this section.
  (e) Payment amount for 2002 crop year
     If counter-cyclical payments are required to be paid for the 2002 crop of peanuts, the amount of the counter-cyclical payment to be paid to an historic peanut producer for that crop year shall be equal to the product of the following:
    (1) The payment rate specified in subsection (d) of this section.
    (2) The payment acres of the historic peanut producer.
    (3) The average peanut yield determined under section 7952(a)(1) of this title for the historic peanut producer.
  (f) Payment amount for subsequent crop years
     If counter-cyclical payments are required to be paid for any of the 2003 through 2007 crops of peanuts, the amount of the counter-cyclical payment to be paid to the producers on a farm for that crop year shall be equal to the product of the following:
    (1) The payment rate specified in subsection (d) of this section.
    (2) The payment acres on the farm.
    (3) The payment yield for the farm.
  (g) Time for payments
    (1) General rule
       If the Secretary determines under subsection (a) of this section that counter-cyclical payments are required to be made under this section for a crop year, the Secretary shall make the counter-cyclical payments as soon as practicable after the end of the 12-month marketing year for the crop.
    (2) Availability of partial payments
       If, before the end of the 12-month marketing year, the Secretary estimates that counter-cyclical payments will be required under this section for a crop year, the Secretary shall give producers on a farm (or, in the case of the 2002 crop year, historic peanut producers) the option to receive partial payments of the counter-cyclical payment projected to be made for that crop.
    (3) Time for partial payments
      (A) 2002 through 2006 crop years
         When the Secretary makes partial payments available under paragraph (2) for any of the 2002 through 2006 crop years–
        (i) the first partial payment for the crop year shall be made not earlier than October 1, and, to the maximum extent practicable, not later than October 31, of the calendar year in which the crop is harvested;
        (ii) the second partial payment shall be made not earlier than February 1 of the next calendar year; and
        (iii) the final partial payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the end of the 12-month marketing year for that crop.
      (B) 2007 crop year
         When the Secretary makes partial payments available for the 2007 crop year–
        (i) the first partial payment shall be made after completion of the first 6 months of the marketing year for that crop; and
        (ii) the final partial payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the end of the 12-month marketing year for that crop.
    (4) Amount of partial payments
      (A) 2002 crop year
        (i) First partial payment
           In the case of the 2002 crop year, the first partial payment under paragraph (3) to an historic peanut producer may not exceed 35 percent of the projected counter-cyclical payment for the crop year, as determined by the Secretary.
        (ii) Second partial payment
           The second partial payment may not exceed the difference between–
          (I) 70 percent of the projected counter-cyclical payment (including any revision thereof) for the 2002 crop year; and
          (II) the amount of the payment made under clause (i).
        (iii) Final payment
           The final payment shall be equal to the difference between–
          (I) the actual counter-cyclical payment to be made to the historic peanut producer; and
          (II) the amount of the partial payments made to the historic peanut producer under clauses (i) and (ii).
      (B) 2003 through 2006 crop years
        (i) First partial payment
           For each of the 2003 through 2006 crop years, the first partial payment under paragraph (3) to the producers on a farm may not exceed 35 percent of the projected counter-cyclical payment for the crop year, as determined by the Secretary.
        (ii) Second partial payment
           The second partial payment for a crop year may not exceed the difference between–
          (I) 70 percent of the projected counter-cyclical payment (including any revision thereof) for the crop year; and
          (II) the amount of the payment made under clause (i).
        (iii) Final payment
           The final payment for a crop year shall be equal to the difference between–
          (I) the actual counter-cyclical payment to be made to the producers for that crop year; and
          (II) the amount of the partial payments made to the producers under clauses (i) and (ii) for that crop year.
      (C) 2007 crop year
        (i) First partial payment
           For the 2007 crop year, the first partial payment under paragraph (3) to the producers on a farm may not exceed 40 percent of the projected counter-cyclical payment for the crop year, as determined by the Secretary.
        (ii) Final payment
           The final payment for the 2007 crop year shall be equal to the difference between–
          (I) the actual counter-cyclical payment to be made to the producers for that crop year; and
          (II) the amount of the partial payment made to the producers under clause (i).
    (5) Repayment
       The producers on a farm (or, in the case of the 2002 crop year, historic peanut producers) that receive a partial payment under this subsection for a crop year shall repay to the Secretary the amount, if any, by which the total of the partial payments exceed the actual counter-cyclical payment to be made for that crop year.
