  (a) Compliance with certain requirements
    (1) Requirements
       Before the producers on a farm may receive direct payments or counter-cyclical payments under this subchapter with respect to the farm, the producers shall agree, during the crop year for which the payments are made and in exchange for the payments–
      (A) to comply with applicable conservation requirements under subtitle B of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.);
      (B) to comply with applicable wetland protection requirements under subtitle C of title XII of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3821 et seq.);
      (C) to comply with the planting flexibility requirements of section 7956 of this title;
      (D) to use the land on the farm, in a quantity equal to the attributable base acres for peanuts and any base acres for the farm under subchapter I of this chapter, for an agricultural or conserving use, and not for a nonagricultural commercial or industrial use, as determined by the Secretary; and
      (E) to effectively control noxious weeds and otherwise maintain the land in accordance with sound agricultural practices, as determined by the Secretary, if the agricultural or conserving use involves the noncultivation of any portion of the land referred to in subparagraph (D).
    (2) Compliance
       The Secretary may issue such rules as the Secretary considers necessary to ensure producer compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1).
    (3) Modification
       At the request of the transferee or owner, the Secretary may modify the requirements of this subsection if the modifications are consistent with the objectives of this subsection, as determined by the Secretary.
  (b) Transfer or change of interest in farm
    (1) Termination
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), a transfer of (or change in) the interest of the producers on a farm in the base acres for peanuts for which direct payments or counter-cyclical payments are made shall result in the termination of the payments with respect to those acres, unless the transferee or owner of the acreage agrees to assume all obligations under subsection (a) of this section. The termination shall take effect on the date determined by the Secretary.
    (2) Exception
       If a producer entitled to a direct payment or counter-cyclical payment dies, becomes incompetent, or is otherwise unable to receive the payment, the Secretary shall make the payment, in accordance with rules issued by the Secretary.
  (c) Acreage reports
     As a condition on the receipt of direct payments, counter-cyclical payments, marketing assistance loans, or loan deficiency payments under this subchapter, the Secretary shall require the producers on a farm to which a payment yield and base acres for peanuts are assigned under section 7952 of this title to submit to the Secretary annual acreage reports with respect to all cropland on the farm.
  (d) Tenants and sharecroppers
     In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers.
  (e) Sharing of payments
     The Secretary shall provide for the sharing of direct payments and counter-cyclical payments among the producers on a farm on a fair and equitable basis.
