   Except as otherwise provided, in this chapter:
  (1) Administrator
     The term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (2) Advisory Committee
     The term ””Advisory Committee““ means the Biomass Research and Development Technical Advisory Committee established by section 8108(d)(1) of this title.
  (3) Advanced biofuel
    (A) In general
       The term ””advanced biofuel““ means fuel derived from renewable biomass other than corn kernel starch.
    (B) Inclusions
       Subject to subparagraph (A), the term ””advanced biofuel““ includes–
      (i) biofuel derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin;
      (ii) biofuel derived from sugar and starch (other than ethanol derived from corn kernel starch);
      (iii) biofuel derived from waste material, including crop residue, other vegetative waste material, animal waste, food waste, and yard waste;
      (iv) diesel-equivalent fuel derived from renewable biomass, including vegetable oil and animal fat;
      (v) biogas (including landfill gas and sewage waste treatment gas) produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass;
      (vi) butanol or other alcohols produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass; and
      (vii) other fuel derived from cellulosic biomass.
  (4) Biobased product
     The term ””biobased product““ means a product determined by the Secretary to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is–
    (A) composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials; or
    (B) an intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
  (5) Biofuel
     The term ””biofuel““ means a fuel derived from renewable biomass.
  (6) Biomass conversion facility
     The term ””biomass conversion facility““ means a facility that converts or proposes to convert renewable biomass into–
    (A) heat;
    (B) power;
    (C) biobased products; or
    (D) advanced biofuels.
  (7) Biorefinery
     The term ””biorefinery““ means a facility (including equipment and processes) that–
    (A) converts renewable biomass into biofuels and biobased products; and
    (B) may produce electricity.
  (8) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Biomass Research and Development Board established by section 8108(c) of this title.
  (9) Indian tribe
     The term ””Indian tribe““ has the meaning given the term in section 450b of title 25.
  (10) Institution of higher education
     The term ””institution of higher education““ has the meaning given the term in section 1002(a) of title 20.
  (11) Intermediate ingredient or feedstock
     The term ””intermediate ingredient or feedstock““ means a material or compound made in whole or in significant part from biological products, including renewable agricultural materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials, that are subsequently used to make a more complex compound or product.
  (12) Renewable biomass
     The term ””renewable biomass““ means–
    (A) materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land and public lands (as defined in section 1702 of title 43) that–
      (i) are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed–
        (I) to reduce hazardous fuels;
        (II) to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or
        (III) to restore ecosystem health;
      (ii) would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
      (iii) are harvested in accordance with–
        (I) applicable law and land management plans; and
        (II) the requirements for–
          (aa) old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (e) of section 6512 of title 16; and
          (bb) large-tree retention of subsection (f) of that section; or
    (B) any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including–
      (i) renewable plant material, including–
        (I) feed grains;
        (II) other agricultural commodities;
        (III) other plants and trees; and
        (IV) algae; and
      (ii) waste material, including–
        (I) crop residue;
        (II) other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues);
        (III) animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and
        (IV) food waste and yard waste.
  (13) Renewable energy
     The term ””renewable energy““ means energy derived from–
    (A) a wind, solar, renewable biomass, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal), geothermal, or hydroelectric source; or
    (B) hydrogen derived from renewable biomass or water using an energy source described in subparagraph (A).
  (14) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
