   In this chapter:
  (1) Brown tree snake
     The term ””brown tree snake““ means the species of the snake Boiga irregularis.
  (2) Compact of Free Association
     The term ””Compact of Free Association““ means the Compacts of Free Association entered into between the United States and the governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as approved by and contained in Public Law 108–188 (117 Stat. 2720; 48 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.), and the Compact of Free Association entered into between the United States and the government of the Republic of Palau, as approved by and contained in Public Law 99–658 (100 Stat. 3673; 48 U.S.C. 1931 et seq.).
  (3) Freely Associated States
     The term ””Freely Associated States““ means the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
  (4) Introduction
     The terms ””introduce““ and ””introduction““ refer to the expansion of the brown tree snake outside of the range where this species is endemic.
  (5) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary concerned““ means–
    (A) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to matters under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior; and
    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to matters under the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture.
  (6) Secretaries
     The term ””Secretaries““ means both the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (7) Technical Working Group
     The term ””Technical Working Group““ means Brown Tree Snake Technical Working Group established under the authority of section 4728 of title 16.
  (8) Territorial
     The term ””territorial““, when used to refer to a government, means the Government of Guam, the Government of American Samoa, and the Government of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, as well as autonomous agencies and instrumentalities of such a government.
  (9) United States
     The term ””United States““, when used in the geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Colombia,\1\N American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, any other possession of the United States, and any waters within the jurisdiction of the United States.
