  (a) Payment required
     For each of the 2008 through 2012 crop years of each covered commodity (other than pulse crops), the Secretary shall make direct payments to producers on farms for which base acres and payment yields are established.
  (b) Payment rate
     Except as provided in section 8715 of this title, the payment rates used to make direct payments with respect to covered commodities for a crop year shall be as follows:
    (1) Wheat, $0.52 per bushel.
    (2) Corn, $0.28 per bushel.
    (3) Grain sorghum, $0.35 per bushel.
    (4) Barley, $0.24 per bushel.
    (5) Oats, $0.024 per bushel.
    (6) Upland cotton, $0.0667 per pound.
    (7) Long grain rice, $2.35 per hundredweight.
    (8) Medium grain rice, $2.35 per hundredweight.
    (9) Soybeans, $0.44 per bushel.
    (10) Other oilseeds, $0.80 per hundredweight.
  (c) Payment amount
     The amount of the direct payment to be paid to the producers on a farm for a covered commodity for a crop year shall be equal to the product of the following:
    (1) The payment rate specified in subsection (b).
    (2) The payment acres of the covered commodity on the farm.
    (3) The payment yield for the covered commodity for the farm.
  (d) Time for payment
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), in the case of each of the 2008 through 2012 crop years, the Secretary may not make direct payments before October 1 of the calendar year in which the crop of the covered commodity is harvested.
    (2) Advance payments
      (A) Option
        (i) In general
           At the option of the producers on a farm, the Secretary shall pay in advance up to 22 percent of the direct payment for a covered commodity for any of the 2008 through 2011 crop years to the producers on a farm.
        (ii) 2008 crop year
           If the producers on a farm elect to receive advance direct payments under clause (i) for a covered commodity for the 2008 crop year, as soon as practicable after the election, the Secretary shall make the advance direct payment to the producers on the farm.
      (B) Month
        (i) Selection
           Subject to clauses (ii) and (iii), the producers on a farm shall select the month during which the advance payment for a crop year will be made.
        (ii) Options
           The month selected may be any month during the period–
          (I) beginning on December 1 of the calendar year before the calendar year in which the crop of the covered commodity is harvested; and
          (II) ending during the month within which the direct payment would otherwise be made.
        (iii) Change
           The producers on a farm may change the selected month for a subsequent advance payment by providing advance notice to the Secretary.
    (3) Repayment of advance payments
       If a producer on a farm that receives an advance direct payment for a crop year ceases to be a producer on that farm, or the extent to which the producer shares in the risk of producing a crop changes, before the date the remainder of the direct payment is made, the producer shall be responsible for repaying the Secretary the applicable amount of the advance payment, as determined by the Secretary.
