  (a) Compliance with certain requirements
    (1) Requirements
       Before the producers on a farm may receive direct payments or counter-cyclical payments under this subchapter, or average crop revenue election payments under section 8715 of this title, with respect to the farm, the producers shall agree, during the crop year for which the payments are made and in exchange for the payments–
      (A) to comply with applicable conservation requirements under subtitle B of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.);
      (B) to comply with applicable wetland protection requirements under subtitle C of title XII of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3821 et seq.);
      (C) to comply with the planting flexibility requirements of section 8756 of this title;
      (D) to use the land on the farm, in a quantity equal to the attributable base acres for peanuts and any base acres for the farm under subchapter I, for an agricultural or conserving use, and not for a nonagricultural commercial, industrial, or residential use, as determined by the Secretary; and
      (E) to effectively control noxious weeds and otherwise maintain the land in accordance with sound agricultural practices, as determined by the Secretary, if the agricultural or conserving use involves the noncultivation of any portion of the land referred to in subparagraph (D).
    (2) Compliance
       The Secretary may issue such rules as the Secretary considers necessary to ensure producer compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1).
    (3) Modification
       At the request of the transferee or owner, the Secretary may modify the requirements of this subsection if the modifications are consistent with the objectives of this subsection, as determined by the Secretary.
  (b) Transfer or change of interest in farm
    (1) Termination
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in paragraph (2), a transfer of (or change in) the interest of the producers on a farm in the base acres for peanuts for which direct payments or counter-cyclical payments are made, or on which average crop revenue election payments are based, shall result in the termination of the direct payments, counter-cyclical payments, or average crop revenue election payments to the extent the payments are made or based on the base acres, unless the transferee or owner of the acreage agrees to assume all obligations under subsection (a).
      (B) Effective date
         The termination shall take effect on the date determined by the Secretary.
    (2) Exception
       If a producer entitled to a direct payment, counter-cyclical payment, or average crop revenue election payment dies, becomes incompetent, or is otherwise unable to receive the payment, the Secretary shall make the payment, in accordance with rules issued by the Secretary.
  (c) Acreage reports
    (1) In general
       As a condition on the receipt of any benefits under this subchapter, the Secretary shall require producers on a farm to submit to the Secretary annual acreage reports with respect to all cropland on the farm.
    (2) Penalties
       No penalty with respect to benefits under this subchapter shall be assessed against the producers on a farm for an inaccurate acreage report unless the producers on the farm knowingly and willfully falsified the acreage report.
  (d) Tenants and sharecroppers
     In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers.
  (e) Sharing of payments
     The Secretary shall provide for the sharing of direct payments, counter-cyclical payments, or average crop revenue election payments under section 8715 of this title among the producers on a farm on a fair and equitable basis.
  (f) Extension of 2008 signup
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall extend the 2008 crop year deadline for the signup for benefits under this subchapter by producers on a farm with base acres of 10 acres or less until the later of–
      (A) November 14, 2008; or
      (B) the end of the 45-day period beginning on October 13, 2008.
    (2) Penalties
       The Secretary shall ensure that no penalty with respect to benefits under this subchapter is assessed against producers on a farm described in paragraph (1) for failure to submit reports under this section or timely comply with other program requirements as a result of compliance with the extended signup deadline under that paragraph.
