  (a) Use of Commodity Credit Corporation
     Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Secretary shall use the funds, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this chapter.
  (b) Determinations by Secretary
     A determination made by the Secretary under this chapter shall be final and conclusive.
  (c) Regulations
    (1) In general
       Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Commodity Credit Corporation, as appropriate, shall promulgate such regulations as are necessary to implement this chapter and the amendments made by this chapter.
    (2) Procedure
       The promulgation of the regulations and administration of this chapter and the amendments made by this chapter shall be made without regard to–
      (A) chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly known as the ””Paperwork Reduction Act““);
      (B) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in rulemaking; and
      (C) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of title 5.
    (3) Congressional review of agency rulemaking
       In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall use the authority provided under section 808 of title 5.
    (4) Interim regulations
       Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall implement the amendments made by sections 1603 and 1604 for the 2009 crop, fiscal, or program year, as appropriate, through the promulgation of an interim rule.
  (d) Adjustment authority related to trade agreements compliance
    (1) Required determination; adjustment
       If the Secretary determines that expenditures under this chapter that are subject to the total allowable domestic support levels under the Uruguay Round Agreements (as defined in section 3501 of title 19) will exceed such allowable levels for any applicable reporting period, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make adjustments in the amount of such expenditures during that period to ensure that such expenditures do not exceed such allowable levels.
    (2) Congressional notification
       Before making any adjustment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report describing the determination made under that paragraph and the extent of the adjustment to be made.
