  (a) Authority of Secretary; exclusion of certain real property
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), on October 1, 1987, the Secretary shall transfer to the District, without compensation, all right, title, and interest of the United States in all real property at Saint Elizabeths Hospital in the District of Columbia together with any buildings, improvements, and personal property used in connection with such property needed to provide mental health and other services provided by the Department of Human Services indentified \1\N pursuant to section 225b(c)(7) of this title.
    (2) Such real property as is identified by the Secretary by September 30, 1987, as necessary to Federal mental health programs at Saint Elizabeths Hospital under section 225(b)(5) of this title shall not be transferred under this subsection.
  (b) Preparation of master plan; consultation; approval; property transfer; exclusion of Oxon Cove Park
     On or before October 1, 1992, the Mayor shall prepare, and submit to the Committee on the District of Columbia of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Governmental Affairs and Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a master plan, not inconsistent with the comprehensive plan for the National Capital, for the use of all real property, buildings, improvements, and personal property comprising Saint Elizabeths Hospital in the District of Columbia not transferred or excluded pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. In developing such plan, the Mayor shall consult with, and provide an opportunity for review by, appropriate Federal, regional, and local agencies. Such master plan submitted by the Mayor shall be approved by a law enacted by the Congress within the 2-year period following the date such plan is submitted to the Committee on the District of Columbia of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Governmental Affairs and Labor and Human Resources of the Senate. Immediately upon the approval of any such law, the Secretary shall transfer to the District, without compensation, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to such property in accordance with such approved plan. The real property, together with the buildings and other improvements thereon, including personal property used in connection therewith, known as the Oxon Cove Park and operated by the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, shall not be transferred under this subchapter.
  (c) Transfer of J.B. Johnson Building and grounds
     On October 1, 1985, the Secretary shall transfer to the District, without compensation, all right, title, and interest of the United States to lot 87, square 622, in the subdivision made by the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency, as per plat recorded in the Office of the Surveyor for the District of Columbia, in liber 154 at folio 149 (901 First Street N.W., the J.B. Johnson Building and grounds).
