  (a) Monthly fees
     The Director of each facility of the Retirement Home shall collect a monthly fee from each resident of that facility.
  (b) Deposit of fees
     The Directors shall deposit fees collected under subsection (a) of this section in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund.
  (c) Fixing fees
    (1) The Chief Operating Officer, with the approval of the Secretary of Defense, shall from time to time prescribe the fees required by subsection (a) of this section. Changes to such fees shall be based on the financial needs of the Retirement Home and the ability of the residents to pay. A change of a fee may not take effect until 120 days after the Secretary of Defense transmits a notification of the change to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (2) The fee shall be fixed as a percentage of the monthly income and monthly payments (including Federal payments) received by a resident. The percentage shall be the same for each facility of the Retirement Home. The Secretary of Defense may make any adjustment in a percentage that the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (3) The fee shall be subject to a limitation on maximum monthly amount. The amount of the limitation shall be increased, effective on January 1 of each year, by the percentage of the increase in retired pay and retainer pay that takes effect on the preceding December 1 under subsection (b) of section 1401a of title 10 without regard to paragraph (3) of such subsection. The first increase in a limitation on maximum monthly amount shall take effect on January 1, 2003.
  (d) Transitional fee structures
    (1) Until different fees are prescribed and take effect under subsection (c) of this section, the percentages and limitations on maximum monthly amount that are applicable to fees charged residents of the Retirement Home are (subject to any adjustment that the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate) as follows:
      (A) For months beginning before January 1, 2002–
        (i) for a permanent health care resident, 65 percent (without limitation on maximum monthly amount); and
        (ii) for a resident who is not a permanent health care resident, 40 percent (without limitation on maximum monthly amount).
      (B) For months beginning after December 31, 2001–
        (i) for an independent living resident, 35 percent, but not to exceed $1,000 each month;
        (ii) for an assisted living resident, 40 percent, but not to exceed $1,500 each month; and
        (iii) for a long-term care resident, 65 percent, but not to exceed $2,500 each month.
    (2) Notwithstanding the limitations on maximum monthly amount prescribed under subsection (c) of this section or set forth in paragraph (1)(B), until the earlier of December 31, 2006, or the date on which an independent living resident or assisted living resident of the Armed Forces Retirement Home–Gulfport occupies a renovated room at that facility, as determined by the Secretary of Defense, the limitation on maximum monthly amount applicable to the resident for months beginning after December 31, 2001, shall be–
      (A) in the case of an independent living resident, $800; and
      (B) in the case of an assisted living resident, $1,300.
