  (a) Duty of Inspector General of the Department of Defense
     The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall have the duty to inspect the Retirement Home.
  (b) Inspections by Inspector General
    (1) In any year in which a facility of the Retirement Home is not inspected by a nationally recognized civilian accrediting organization, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall perform a comprehensive inspection of all aspects of that facility, including independent living, assisted living, medical and dental care, pharmacy, financial and contracting records, and any aspect of either facility on which the Local Board for the facility or the resident advisory committee or council of the facility recommends inspection.
    (2) The Inspector General shall be assisted in inspections under this subsection by a medical inspector general of a military department designated for purposes of this subsection by the Secretary of Defense.
    (3) In conducting the inspection of a facility of the Retirement Home under this subsection, the Inspector General shall solicit concerns, observations, and recommendations from the Local Board for the facility, the resident advisory committee or council of the facility, and the residents of the facility. Any concerns, observations, and recommendations solicited from residents shall be solicited on a not-for-attribution basis.
    (4) The Chief Operating Officer and the Director of each facility of the Retirement Home shall make all staff, other personnel, and records of each facility available to the Inspector General in a timely manner for purposes of inspections under this subsection.
  (c) Reports on inspections by Inspector General
    (1) The Inspector General shall prepare a report describing the results of each inspection conducted of a facility of the Retirement Home under subsection (b), and include in the report such recommendations as the Inspector General considers appropriate in light of the inspection. Not later than 45 days after completing the inspection of the facility, the Inspector General shall submit the report to Congress and the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Chief Operating Officer, the Director of the facility, the Senior Medical Advisor, and the Local Board for the facility.
    (2) Not later than 45 days after receiving a report of the Inspector General under paragraph (1), the Director of the facility concerned shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Chief Operating Officer, and the Local Board for the facility, and to Congress, a plan to address the recommendations and other matters set forth in the report.
  (d) Additional inspections
    (1) The Chief Operating Officer shall request the inspection of each facility of the Retirement Home by a nationally recognized civilian accrediting organization in accordance with section 411(g) of this title.
    (2) The Chief Operating Officer and the Director of a facility being inspected under this subsection shall make all staff, other personnel, and records of the facility available to the civilian accrediting organization in a timely manner for purposes of inspections under this subsection.
  (e) Reports on additional inspections
    (1) Not later than 45 days after receiving a report of an inspection from the civilian accrediting organization under subsection (d), the Director of the facility concerned shall submit to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Chief Operating Officer, and the Local Board for the facility a report containing–
      (A) the results of the inspection; and
      (B) a plan to address any recommendations and other matters set forth in the report.
    (2) Not later than 45 days after receiving a report and plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall submit the report and plan to Congress.
