  (a) Special court; exclusive jurisdiction for civil actions
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the special court shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action–
    (1) for injunctive, declaratory, or other relief relating to the enforcement, operation, execution, or interpretation of any provision of or amendment made by this subtitle or part 2 of the Conrail Privatization Act [45 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.], or administrative action taken thereunder to the extent such action is subject to judicial review;
    (2) challenging the constitutionality of any provision of or amendment made by this subtitle or part 2 of the Conrail Privatization Act [45 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.];
    (3) to obtain, inspect, copy, or review any document in the possession or control of the Secretary, Conrail, the United States Railway Association, or Amtrak that would be discoverable in litigation under any provision of or amendment made by this subtitle or part 2 of the Conrail Privatization Act [45 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.]; or
    (4) seeking judgment upon any claim against the United States founded upon the Constitution and resulting from the operation of any provision of or amendment made by this subtitle or part 2 of the Conrail Privatization Act [45 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.].
  (b) Exclusive review by writ of certiorari to Supreme Court
     A judgment of the special court in any action referred to in this section shall be reviewable only upon petition for a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of the United States. Such review is exclusive and any such petition shall be filed in the Supreme Court not more than 20 days after entry of such order or judgment.
  (c) Scope of review of administrative actions
     Administrative action under the provisions of or amendments made by this subtitle or part 2 of the Conrail Privatization Act [45 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.] which is subject to review shall be upheld unless such action is found to be unlawful under standards established for review of informal agency action under paragraphs (2)(A), (B), (C), and (D) of section 706 of title 5. The requirements of this subtitle or part 2 of the Conrail Privatization Act [45 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.], as the case may be, shall constitute the exclusive procedures required by law for such administrative action.
  (d) Assignment of additional judges
     If the volume of civil actions under subsection (a) of this section so requires, the United States Railway Association shall apply to the judicial panel on multi-district litigation authorized by section 1407 of title 28 for the assignment of additional judges to the special court. Within 30 days after the date of such application, the panel shall assign to the special court such additional judges as may be necessary to exercise the jurisdiction described in subsection (a) of this section.
