  (a) Except a vessel on a voyage from a port in the United States to a port in Canada, a vessel of the United States shall have an official logbook if the vessel is–
    (1) on a voyage from a port in the United States to a foreign port; or
    (2) of at least 100 gross tons as measured under section 14502 of this title, or an alternate tonnage measured under section 14302 of this title as prescribed by the Secretary under section 14104 of this title and is on a voyage between a port of the United States on the Atlantic Ocean and on the Pacific Ocean.
  (b) The master of the vessel shall make or have made in the official logbook the following entries:
    (1) each legal conviction of a seaman of the vessel and the punishment inflicted.
    (2) each offense committed by a seaman of the vessel for which it is intended to prosecute or to enforce under a forfeiture, together with statements about reading the entry and the reply made to the charge as required by section 11502 of this title.
    (3) each offense for which punishment is inflicted on board and the punishment inflicted.
    (4) a statement of the conduct, character, and qualifications of each seaman of the vessel or a statement that the master declines to give an opinion about that conduct, character, and qualifications.
    (5) each illness of or injury to a seaman of the vessel, the nature of the illness or injury, and the medical treatment.
    (6) each death on board, with the cause of death, and if a seaman, the information required by section 10702 of this title.
    (7) each birth on board, with the sex of the infant and name of the parents.
    (8) each marriage on board, with the names and ages of the parties.
    (9) the name of each seaman who ceases to be a crewmember (except by death), with the place, time, manner, and the cause why the seaman ceased to be a crewmember.
    (10) the wages due to a seaman who dies during the voyage and the gross amount of all deductions to be made from the wages.
    (11) the sale of the property of a seaman who dies during the voyage, including a statement of each article sold and the amount received for the property.
    (12) when a marine casualty occurs, a statement about the casualty and the circumstances under which it occurred, made immediately after the casualty when practicable to do so.
