  (a) A vessel of at least 5 net tons that is not registered under the laws of a foreign country or is not titled in a State is eligible for documentation if the vessel is owned by–
    (1) an individual who is a citizen of the United States;
    (2) an association, trust, joint venture, or other entity–
      (A) all of whose members are citizens of the United States; and
      (B) that is capable of holding title to a vessel under the laws of the United States or of a State;
    (3) a partnership whose general partners are citizens of the United States, and the controlling interest in the partnership is owned by citizens of the United States;
    (4) a corporation established under the laws of the United States or of a State, whose president or other chief executive officer and chairman of its board of directors are citizens of the United States and no more of its directors are noncitizens than a minority of the number necessary to constitute a quorum;
    (5) the United States Government; or
    (6) the government of a State.
  (b) A vessel is eligible for documentation only if it has been measured under part J of this subtitle. However, the Secretary of Transportation may issue a temporary certificate of documentation for a vessel before it is measured.
  (c)    (1) A vessel owned by a corporation is not eligible for a fishery endorsement under section 12108 of this title unless the controlling interest (as measured by a majority of voting shares in that corporation) is owned by individuals who are citizens of the United States. However, if the corporation is owned in whole or in part by other United States corporations, the controlling interest in those corporations, in the aggregate, must be owned by individuals who are citizens of the United States.
    (2) The Secretary shall apply the restrictions on controlling interest in section 2(b) of the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 App. U.S.C. 802(b)) when applying this subsection.
  (d)    (1) For the issuance of a certificate of documentation with only a registry endorsement, subsection (a)(2)(A) of this section does not apply to a beneficiary of a trust that is qualified under paragraph (2) of this subsection if the vessel is subject to a charter to a citizen of the United States.
    (2)      (A) Subject to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, a trust is qualified under this paragraph with respect to a vessel only if–
        (i) each of the trustees is a citizen of the United States; and
        (ii) the application for documentation of the vessel includes the affidavit of each trustee stating that the trustee is not aware of any reason involving a beneficiary of the trust that is not a citizen of the United States, or involving any other person that is not a citizen of the United States, as a result of which the beneficiary or other person would hold more than 25 percent of the aggregate power to influence or limit the exercise of the authority of the trustee with respect to matters involving any ownership or operation of the vessel that may adversely affect the interests of the United States.
      (B) If any person that is not a citizen of the United States has authority to direct or participate in directing a trustee for a trust in matters involving any ownership or operation of the vessel that may adversely affect the interests of the United States or in removing a trustee for a trust without cause, either directly or indirectly through the control of another person, the trust is not qualified under this paragraph unless the trust instrument provides that persons who are not citizens of the United States may not hold more than 25 percent of the aggregate authority to so direct or remove a trustee.
    (3) Paragraph (2) of this subsection shall not be considered to prohibit a person who is not a citizen of the United States from holding more than 25 percent of the beneficial interest in a trust.
    (4) If a person chartering a vessel from a trust that is qualified under paragraph (2) of this subsection is a citizen of the United States under section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 App. U.S.C. 802), then the vessel is deemed to be owned by a citizen of the United States for purposes of that section and related laws, except for subtitle B of title VI of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936.
