  (a) T4OrganizationK.–The Federal Maritime Commission is an independent establishment of the United States Government.
  (b) T4CommissionersK.–
    (1) T4CompositionK.–The Commission is composed of 5 Commissioners, appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Not more than 3 Commissioners may be appointed from the same political party.
    (2) T4TermsK.–The term of each Commissioner is 5 years, with each term beginning one year apart. An individual appointed to fill a vacancy is appointed only for the unexpired term of the individual being succeeded. A vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. When the term of a Commissioner ends, the Commissioner may continue to serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
    (3) T4RemovalK.–The President may remove a Commissioner for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.
  (c) T4ChairmanK.–
    (1) T4DesignationK.–The President shall designate one of the Commissioners as Chairman.
    (2) T4General authorityK.–The Chairman is the chief executive and administrative officer of the Commission. In carrying out the duties and powers of the Commission (other than under paragraph (3)), the Chairman is subject to the policies, regulatory decisions, findings, and determinations of the Commission.
    (3) T4Particular dutiesK.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The Chairman shall–
        (i) appoint and supervise officers and employees of the Commission;
        (ii) appoint the heads of major organizational units, but only after consultation with the other Commissioners;
        (iii) distribute the business of the Commission among personnel and organizational units;
        (iv) supervise the expenditure of money for administrative purposes; and
        (v) assign Commission personnel, including Commissioners, to perform duties and powers delegated by the Commission under section 304 of this title.
      (B) T4NonapplicationK.–Subparagraph (A) (other than clause (v)) does not apply to personnel employed regularly and full-time in the offices of Commissioners other than the Chairman.
    (4) T4DelegationK.–The Chairman may designate officers and employees under the Chairman“s jurisdiction to perform duties and powers of the Chairman, subject to the Chairman“s supervision and direction.
  (d) T4SealK.–The Commission shall have a seal which shall be judicially recognized.
