  (a) T4Applications To Use VesselsK.–The Governor of a State sponsoring a State maritime academy (or the Governor of the State designated to conduct the affairs of a regional maritime academy) may apply in writing to the Secretary of Transportation to obtain the use of a training vessel for the academy. A vessel provided under this section remains the property of the United States Government.
  (b) T4General AuthorityK.–Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary may provide to a State maritime academy, for use as a training vessel, a suitable vessel under the control of the Secretary or made available to the Secretary under subsection (e). If a suitable vessel is not available, the Secretary may build and provide a suitable vessel.
  (c) T4Approval RequirementsK.–The Secretary may provide a vessel under this section only if–
    (1) an application has been made under subsection (a);
    (2) the State maritime academy satisfies section 51506(a) of this title; and
    (3) a suitable port will be available for the safe mooring of the vessel while the academy is using the vessel.
  (d) T4Preparation and MaintenanceK.–A vessel provided under this section shall be–
    (1) repaired, reconditioned, and equipped (with all apparel, charts, books, and instruments of navigation) as necessary for use as a training vessel; and
    (2) maintained in good repair by the Secretary.
  (e) T4Agency VesselsK.–An agency may provide to the Secretary, for use by a State maritime academy, a vessel (including equipment) that–
    (1) is suitable for training purposes; and
    (2) can be provided without detriment to the service to which the vessel is assigned.
  (f) T4Fuel Costs.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall pay to each State maritime academy the costs of fuel used by a vessel provided under this section while used for training.
    (2) T4Maximum amountsK.–The amount of the payment to a State maritime academy under paragraph (1) may not exceed–
      (A) $100,000 for fiscal year 2006;
      (B) $200,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
      (C) $300,000 for fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter.
  (g) T4Removing Vessels From Service and Vessel SharingK.–The Secretary may not–
    (1) take a vessel, currently in use as a training vessel under this section, out of service to implement an alternative program (including vessel sharing) unless the vessel is incapable of being maintained in good repair as required by subsection (d); or
    (2) implement a program requiring a State maritime academy to share its training vessel with another State maritime academy, except with the express consent of Congress.
