  (a) T4Emergency Preparedness Agreement RequiredK.–The Secretary shall establish an Emergency Preparedness Program under this section that is approved by the Secretary of Defense. Under the program, the Secretary, in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense, shall include in each operating agreement under this chapter a requirement that the contractor enter into an Emergency Preparedness Agreement under this section with the Secretary. The Secretary shall negotiate and enter into an Emergency Preparedness Agreement with each contractor as promptly as practicable after the contractor has entered into an operating agreement under this chapter.
  (b) T4Terms of AgreementK.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–An Emergency Preparedness Agreement under this section shall require that upon a request by the Secretary of Defense during time of war or national emergency, or whenever determined by the Secretary of Defense to be necessary for national security or contingency operation (as that term is defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code), a contractor for a vessel covered by an operating agreement under this chapter shall make available commercial transportation resources (including services).
    (2) T4Basic termsK.–(A) The basic terms of the Emergency Preparedness Agreement shall be established (subject to subparagraph (B)) by the Secretary and the Secretary of Defense.
  (B) In any Emergency Preparedness Agreement, the Secretary and a contractor may agree to additional or modifying terms appropriate to the contractor“s circumstances if those terms have been approved by the Secretary of Defense.
  (c) T4Participation After Expiration of Operating AgreementK.–Except as provided by section 53105(d), the Secretary may not require, through an Emergency Preparedness Agreement or operating agreement, that a contractor continue to participate in an Emergency Preparedness Agreement after the operating agreement with the contractor has expired according to its terms or is otherwise no longer in effect. After expiration of an Emergency Preparedness Agreement, a contractor may volunteer to continue to participate in such an agreement.
  (d) T4Resources Made AvailableK.–The commercial transportation resources to be made available under an Emergency Preparedness Agreement shall include vessels or capacity in vessels, intermodal systems and equipment, terminal facilities, intermodal and management services, and other related services, or any agreed portion of such nonvessel resources for activation as the Secretary of Defense may determine to be necessary, seeking to minimize disruption of the contractor“s service to commercial shippers.
  (e) T4CompensationK.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary shall include in each Emergency Preparedness Agreement provisions approved by the Secretary of Defense under which the Secretary of Defense shall pay fair and reasonable compensation for all commercial transportation resources provided pursuant to this section.
    (2) T4Specific requirementsK.–Compensation under this subsection–
      (A) shall not be less than the contractor“s commercial market charges for like transportation resources;
      (B) shall be fair and reasonable considering all circumstances;
      (C) shall be provided from the time that a vessel or resource is required by the Secretary of Defense until the time that it is redelivered to the contractor and is available to reenter commercial service; and
      (D) shall be in addition to and shall not in any way reflect amounts payable under section 53106.
  (f) T4Temporary Replacement VesselsK.–Notwithstanding section 2631 of title 10, United States Code, the Act of March 26, 1934 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241–1), section 901(a), 901(b), or 901b of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241(a), 1241(b), or 1241f), or any other cargo preference law of the United States–
    (1) a contractor may operate or employ in foreign commerce a foreign-flag vessel or foreign-flag vessel capacity as a temporary replacement for a United States-documented vessel or United States-documented vessel capacity that is activated by the Secretary of Defense under an Emergency Preparedness Agreement or under a primary Department of Defense-approved sealift readiness program; and
    (2) such replacement vessel or vessel capacity shall be eligible during the replacement period to transport preference cargoes subject to section 2631 of title 10, United States Code, the Act of March 26, 1934 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241–1), and sections 901(a), 901(b), and 901b of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241(a), 1241(b), and 1241b) \1\N to the same extent as the eligibility of the vessel or vessel capacity replaced.
  (g) T4Redelivery and Liability of United States for DamagesK.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–All commercial transportation resources activated under an Emergency Preparedness Agreement shall, upon termination of the period of activation, be redelivered to the contractor in the same good order and condition as when received, less ordinary wear and tear, or the Secretary of Defense shall fully compensate the contractor for any necessary repair or replacement.
    (2) T4Limitation on liability of u.sK.–Except as may be expressly agreed to in an Emergency Preparedness Agreement, or as otherwise provided by law, the Government shall not be liable for disruption of a contractor“s commercial business or other consequential damages to a contractor arising from activation of commercial transportation resources under an Emergency Preparedness Agreement.
