  (a) T4Applicable TermsK.–The Secretary may guarantee an obligation for an eligible export vessel in accordance with–
    (1) the terms applicable under this chapter for vessels documented under the laws of the United States; or
    (2) other terms the Secretary determines are more favorable than those terms and compatible with export credit terms offered by foreign governments for the sale of vessels built in foreign shipyards.
  (b) T4Interagency CouncilK.–
    (1) T4EstablishmentK.–There is an interagency council to carry out this section.
    (2) T4CompositionK.–The council is composed of the following individuals or their designees:
      (A) The Secretary of Transportation, who is the chairman of the council.
      (B) The Secretary of the Treasury.
      (C) The Secretary of State.
      (D) The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
      (E) The United States Trade Representative.
      (F) The President and Chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
    (3) T4FunctionsK.–The council shall–
      (A) obtain information on shipbuilding loan guarantees, direct and indirect subsidies, and other favorable treatment of shipyards provided by foreign governments to shipyards in competition with United States shipyards;
      (B) consult regularly with United States shipbuilders to obtain the essential information about international shipbuilding competition on which to set terms for loan guarantees under subsection (a)(2); and
      (C) provide guidance to the Secretary in establishing terms for loan guarantees under subsection (a)(2).
    (4) T4Annual reportK.–Not later than January 31 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on activities of the Secretary under this section during the preceding year. The report shall include–
      (A) documentation of sources of information about assistance by governments of other countries to shipyards in those countries; and
      (B) a summary of recommendations made to the Secretary during the preceding year about applications submitted to the Secretary during that year for loan guarantees to construct eligible export vessels.
  (c) T4Required FindingsK.–
    (1) T4Benefit to shipbuilding industryK.–The Secretary may not guarantee or make a commitment to guarantee an obligation for an eligible export vessel unless the Secretary finds that the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning of the vessel will aid in the transition of United States shipyards to commercial activities or will preserve shipbuilding assets that would be essential in time of war or national emergency.
    (2) T4Priority of documented vesselsK.–The Secretary may not make a commitment to guarantee an obligation for an eligible export vessel unless the Secretary determines that making the commitment will not result in denial of an economically sound application for a commitment to guarantee an obligation for a vessel documented under the laws of the United States and operating in the domestic or foreign commerce of the United States. The Secretary has sole discretion in making the determination. In making the determination, the Secretary shall consider–
      (A) the status and economic soundness of pending applications for commitments to guarantee obligations for vessels documented under the laws of the United States that are operating or will be operating in the domestic or foreign commerce of the United States; and
      (B) the amount of guarantee authority available.
  (d) T4Restriction on Transfer of VesselK.–The Secretary may not guarantee or make a commitment to guarantee an obligation for an eligible export vessel unless the owner of the vessel agrees with the Secretary that the vessel will not be transferred to a country designated by the Secretary of Defense as a country whose interests are hostile to the interests of the United States.
  (e) T4Review by Secretary of DefenseK.–
    (1) T4NotificationK.–The Secretary shall promptly notify the Secretary of Defense of the receipt of an application for a loan guarantee for an eligible export vessel.
    (2) T4DisapprovalK.–The Secretary of Defense, within 30 days after receiving the notice, may disapprove the guarantee based on an assessment of the potential use of the vessel in a manner that may harm the national security interests of the United States. The Secretary may not disapprove a guarantee solely because of the type of vessel to be constructed.
    (3) T4DelegationK.–The authority of the Secretary of Defense to disapprove a guarantee under this subsection may be delegated only to a civilian officer of the Department of Defense appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (4) T4ProhibitionK.–The Secretary may not make a loan guarantee disapproved by the Secretary of Defense under this subsection.
  (f) T4Expiration of AuthorityK.–The Secretary may not issue a commitment to guarantee an obligation for an eligible export vessel under this chapter after the last date on which such a commitment may be issued under any treaty or convention entered into after November 30, 1993, that prohibits guarantee of such an obligation.
