  (a) T4Establishment of CommitteesK.–(1) The Secretary shall establish a National Maritime Security Advisory Committee. The Committee–
    (A) may advise, consult with, report to, and make recommendations to the Secretary on matters relating to national maritime security matters;
    (B) may make available to the Congress recommendations that the Committee makes to the Secretary; and
    (C) shall meet at the call of–
      (i) the Secretary, who shall call such a meeting at least once during each calendar year; or
      (ii) a majority of the Committee.
  (2)    (A) The Secretary may–
      (i) establish an Area Maritime Security Advisory Committee for any port area of the United States; and
      (ii) request such a committee to review the proposed Area Maritime Transportation Security Plan developed under section 70103(b) and make recommendations to the Secretary that the Committee considers appropriate.
    (B) A committee established under this paragraph for an area–
      (i) may advise, consult with, report to, and make recommendations to the Secretary on matters relating to maritime security in that area;
      (ii) may make available to the Congress recommendations that the committee makes to the Secretary; and
      (iii) shall meet at the call of–
        (I) the Secretary, who shall call such a meeting at least once during each calendar year; or
        (II) a majority of the committee.
  (b) T4MembershipK.–(1) Each of the committees established under subsection (a) shall consist of not less than 7 members appointed by the Secretary, each of whom has at least 5 years practical experience in maritime security operations.
  (2) The term of each member shall be for a period of not more than 5 years, specified by the Secretary.
  (3) Before appointing an individual to a position on such a committee, the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting nominations for membership on the committee.
  (4) The Secretary may require an individual to have passed an appropriate security background examination before appointment to the Committee.
  (c) T4Chairperson and Vice ChairpersonK.–(1) Each committee established under subsection (a) shall elect 1 of its members as the Chairman and 1 of its members as the Vice Chairperson.
  (2) The Vice Chairman shall act as Chairman in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman, or in the event of a vacancy in the office of the Chairman.
  (d) T4ObserversK.–(1) The Secretary shall, and the head of any other interested Federal agency may, designate a representative to participate as an observer with the Committee.
  (2) The Secretary“s designated representative shall act as the executive secretary of the Committee and shall perform the duties set forth in section 10(c) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
  (e) T4Consideration of ViewsK.–The Secretary shall consider the information, advice, and recommendations of the Committee in formulating policy regarding matters affecting maritime security.
  (f) T4Compensation and ExpensesK.–(1) A member of a committee established under this section, when attending meetings of the committee or when otherwise engaged in the business of the committee, is entitled to receive–
    (A) compensation at a rate fixed by the Secretary, not exceeding the daily equivalent of the current rate of basic pay in effect for GS–15 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5 including travel time; and
    (B) travel or transportation expenses under section 5703 of title 5.
  (2) A member of such a committee shall not be considered to be an officer or employee of the United States for any purpose based on their receipt of any payment under this subsection.
  (g) FACA; T4TerminationK.–(1) The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)–
    (A) applies to the National Maritime Security Advisory Committee established under this section, except that such committee terminates on September 30, 2008; and
    (B) does not apply to Area Maritime Security Advisory Committees established under this section.
  (2) Not later than September 30, 2006, each committee established under this section shall submit to the Congress its recommendation regarding whether the committee should be renewed and continued beyond the termination date.
