  (a) Authorization
     The Secretary may issue, in such amounts as are provided in appropriation acts, notes or other obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury, in such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe. Such obligations may be issued whenever the moneys in the obligation guarantee fund are not sufficient to pay any amount which the Secretary is required to pay under section 833 of this title. Such obligations shall bear interest at a rate to be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States on comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of such obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase any such obligations, and for such purpose he may use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, as now or hereafter in force. The purposes for which securities may be issued under such chapter are extended to include any purchase of notes or other obligations issued under this subsection. The Secretary of the Treasury may sell any such obligations at such times and price and upon such terms and conditions as he shall determine in his discretion. All purchases, redemptions, and sales of such obligations by such Secretary shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States. Moneys obtained under this subsection shall be deposited in the obligation guarantee fund, and redemptions of any such obligations shall be made by the Secretary from such fund.
  (b) Validity
     No guarantee or commitment to guarantee under section 831 of this title may be terminated, suspended, canceled, or otherwise revoked, except in accordance with lawful terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary. Such a guarantee or commitment shall be conclusive evidence that the underlying obligation is in compliance with the provisions of such sections of this subchapter, and that such obligation has been approved and is legal as to principal, interest, and other terms. Such a guarantee or commitment to guarantee shall be valid and incontestable in the hands of the holder thereof, as of the date when the Secretary granted the application therefor, except as to fraud or material misrepresentation by such holder.
  (c) ””Secretary of the Treasury““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””Secretary of the Treasury““ includes any designated representative of such Secretary.
