  (a) General
     The Comptroller General of the United States is authorized to audit the operations of the Fund and of the obligation guarantee fund in accordance with such rules and regulations as he may prescribe. Any such audit shall be conducted at the place or places where accounts of the Fund or of the obligation guarantee fund are normally kept. The representatives of the Comptroller General shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, files, and other papers, things, or property belonging to, or in use by or in connection with the Fund, the obligation guarantee fund, or the Secretary which pertain to the financial transactions of the Fund or the obligation guarantee fund and which are necessary to facilitate an audit. Such representatives shall be afforded full facilities for verifying transactions with the balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians. All such books, accounts, records, reports, files, papers, things, and property shall remain in the possession and custody of the Fund, the obligation guarantee fund, or the Secretary, as the case may be.
  (b) Access to information
     The representatives of the Comptroller General shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, files, and other papers, things, or property belonging to or in use by any person or entity which has entered into a financial transaction with or involving the Fund, the obligation guarantee fund, or the Secretary, under this subchapter, to the extent deemed necessary by the Comptroller General to facilitate any audit of financial transactions pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. Such representatives shall be afforded full facilities for verifying transactions with the balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians. All such property of such person or entity shall, to the extent practicable, remain in the possession and custody of such person or entity.
  (c) Report
     The Comptroller General shall make a report of each such audit to the Congress. Such report shall contain all comments and information which the Comptroller General deems necessary to inform Congress of the financial operations and condition of the Fund and of the obligation guarantee fund and any recommendations which he deems advisable. Such report shall indicate specifically and describe in detail any program, expenditure, or other financial transaction or undertaking observed in the course of such audit which the Comptroller General deems to have been carried on or made without lawful authority or which is inconsistent with the purposes and provisions of this subchapter. A copy of such report shall be furnished to the President, the Secretary, and the Commission, at the time it is submitted to the Congress.
