  (a) The President shall prepare budgets of the United States Government under section 1105 of this title and proposed deficiency and supplemental appropriations under section 1107 of this title. To the extent practicable, the President shall use uniform terms in stating the purposes and conditions of appropriations.
  (b) Except as provided in this chapter, the President shall prescribe the contents and order of statements in the budget on expenditures and estimated expenditures and statements on proposed appropriations and information submitted with the budget and proposed appropriations. The President shall include with the budget and proposed appropriations information on personnel and other objects of expenditure in the way that information was included in the budget for fiscal year 1950. However, the requirement that information be included in the budget in that way may be waived or changed by joint action of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. This subsection does not limit the authority of a committee of Congress to request information in a form it prescribes.
  (c) When the President makes a basic change in the form of the budget, the President shall submit with the budget information showing where items in the budget for the prior fiscal year are contained in the present budget. However, the President may change the functional categories in the budget only in consultation with the Committees on Appropriations and on the Budget of both Houses of Congress. Committees of the House of Representatives and Senate shall receive prompt notification of all such changes.
  (d) The President shall develop programs and prescribe regulations to improve the compilation, analysis, publication, and dissemination of statistical information by executive agencies. The President shall carry out this subsection through the Administrator for the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Management and Budget.
  (e) Under regulations prescribed by the President, each agency shall provide information required by the President in carrying out this chapter. The President has access to, and may inspect, records of an agency to obtain information.
