   As used in this subchapter–
  (1) The term ””Administration““ means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
  (2) The term ””Director““ means the Director of the national sea grant college program, appointed pursuant to section 1123(b) \1\N of this title.
  (3) the \2\N term ””director of a sea grant college““ means a person designated by his or her institution to direct a sea grant college or sea grant institute.
  (4) The term ””field related to ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources““ means any discipline or field, including marine affairs, resource management, technology, education, or science, which is concerned with or likely to improve the understanding, assessment, development, utilization, or conservation of ocean, coastal, or Great Lakes resources.
  (5) The term ””institution““ means any public or private institution of higher education, institute, laboratory, or State or local agency.
  (6) The term ””includes““ and variants thereof should be read as if the phrase ””but is not limited to““ were also set forth.
  (7) The term ””ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources““ means the resources that are located in, derived from, or traceable to, the seabed, subsoil, and waters of–
    (A) the coastal zone, as defined in section 1453(1) of title 16;
    (B) the Great Lakes;
    (C) Lake Champlain (to the extent that such resources have hydrological, biological, physical, or geological characteristics and problems similar or related to those of the Great Lakes);
    (D) the territorial sea;
    (E) the exclusive economic zone;
    (F) the Outer Continental Shelf; and
    (G) the high seas.
  (8) The term ””resource““ means–
    (A) living resources (including natural and cultured plant life, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and wildlife);
    (B) nonliving resources (including energy sources, minerals, and chemical substances);
    (C) the habitat of a living resource, the coastal space, the ecosystems, the nutrient-rich areas, and the other components of the marine environment that contribute to or provide (or which are capable of contributing to or providing) recreational, scenic, esthetic, biological, habitational, commercial, economic, or conservation values; and
    (D) man-made, tangible, intangible, actual, or potential resources.
  (9) The term ””panel““ means the sea grant review panel established under section 1128 of this title.
  (10) The term ””person““ means any individual; any public or private corporation, partnership, or other association or entity (including any sea grant college, sea grant institute or other institution); or any State, political subdivision of a State, or agency or officer thereof.
  (11) The term ””project““ means any individually described activity in a field related to ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources involving research, education, training, or advisory services administered by a person with expertise in such a field.
  (12) The term ””sea grant college““ means any institution, or any association or alliance of two or more such institutions, designated as such by the Secretary under section 1126 of this title.
  (13) The term ””sea grant institute““ means any institution, or any association or alliance of two or more such institutions, designated as such by the Secretary under section 1126 of this title.
  (14) The term ””sea grant program““ means a program of research and outreach which is administered by one or more sea grant colleges or sea grant institutes.
  (15) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.
  (16) The term ””State““ means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
