  (a) Establishment
     There shall be an independent committee to be known as the National Sea Grant Advisory Board.
  (b) Duties
    (1) In general
       The Board shall advise the Secretary and the Director concerning–
      (A) strategies for utilizing the sea grant college program to address the Nation“s highest priorities regarding the understanding, assessment, development, management, utilization, and conservation of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources;
      (B) the designation of sea grant colleges and sea grant institutes; and
      (C) such other matters as the Secretary refers to the Board for review and advice.
    (2) Biennial report
       The Board shall report to the Congress every two years on the state of the national sea grant college program. The Board shall indicate in each such report the progress made toward meeting the priorities identified in the strategic plan in effect under section 1123(c) of this title. The Secretary shall make available to the Board such information, personnel, and administrative services and assistance as it may reasonably require to carry out its duties under this subchapter.
  (c) Membership, terms, and powers
    (1) The Board shall consist of 15 voting members who shall be appointed by the Secretary. The Director and a director of a sea grant program who is elected by the various directors of sea grant programs shall serve as nonvoting members of the Board. Not less than 8 of the voting members of the Board shall be individuals who, by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, are especially qualified in one or more of the disciplines and fields included in marine science. The other voting members shall be individuals who, by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, are especially qualified in, or representative of, education, marine affairs and resource management, coastal management, extension services, State government, industry, economics, planning, or any other activity which is appropriate to, and important for, any effort to enhance the understanding, assessment, development, management, utilization, or conservation of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources. No individual is eligible to be a voting member of the Board if the individual is (A) the director of a sea grant college or sea grant institute; (B) an applicant for, or beneficiary (as determined by the Secretary) of, any grant or contract under section 1124 of this title; or (C) a full-time officer or employee of the United States.
    (2) The term of office of a voting member of the Board shall be 3 years for a member appointed before November 26, 2002, and 4 years for a member appointed or reappointed after November 26, 2002. The Director may extend the term of office of a voting member of the Board appointed before November 26, 2002, by up to 1 year. At least once each year, the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting nominations for membership on the Board.
    (3) Any individual appointed to a partial or full term may be reappointed for one additional full term. The Director may extend the term of office of a voting member of the Board once by up to 1 year.
    (4) The Board shall select one voting member to serve as the Chairman and another voting member to serve as the Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman shall act as Chairman in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman.
    (5) Voting members of the Board shall–
      (A) receive compensation at a rate established by the Secretary, not to exceed the maximum daily rate payable under section 5376 of title 5, when actually engaged in the performance of duties for such Board; and
      (B) be reimbursed for actual and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of such duties.
    (6) The Board shall meet on a biannual basis and, at any other time, at the call of the Chairman or upon the request of a majority of the voting members or of the Director.
    (7) The Board may exercise such powers as are reasonably necessary in order to carry out its duties under subsection (b) of this section.
    (8) The Board may establish such subcommittees as are reasonably necessary to carry out its duties under subsection (b). Such subcommittees may include individuals who are not Board members.
