  (a) Transmittal of regulations
     The Secretary shall transmit, via the Secretary of State, to appropriate international bodies or forums, any regulations issued under this chapter, for consideration as international standards.
  (b) Agreements
     The President is authorized and encouraged to–
    (1) enter into negotiations and conclude and execute agreements with neighboring nations, to establish compatible vessel standards and vessel traffic services, and to establish, operate, and maintain international vessel traffic services, in areas and under circumstances of mutual concern; and
    (2) enter into negotiations, through appropriate international bodies, and conclude and execute agreements to establish vessel traffic services in appropriate areas of the high seas.
  (c) Operations
     The Secretary, pursuant to any agreement negotiated under subsection (b) of this section which is binding upon the United States in accordance with constitutional requirements, may–
    (1) require vessels in the vessel traffic service area to utilize or to comply with the vessel traffic service, including the carrying or installation of equipment and devices as necessary for the use of the service; and
    (2) waive, by order or regulation, the application of any United States law or regulation concerning the design, construction, operation, equipment, personnel qualifications, and manning standards for vessels operating in waters over which the United States exercises jurisdiction if such vessel is not en route to or from a United States port or place, and if vessels en route to or from a United States port or place are accorded equivalent waivers of laws and regulations of the neighboring nation, when operating in waters over which that nation exercises jurisdiction.
  (d) Ship reporting systems
     The Secretary, in cooperation with the International Maritime Organization, is authorized to implement and enforce two mandatory ship reporting systems, consistent with international law, with respect to vessels subject to such reporting systems entering the following areas of the Atlantic Ocean: Cape Cod Bay, Massachusetts Bay, and Great South Channel (in the area generally bounded by a line starting from a point on Cape Ann, Massachusetts at 42 deg. 39“ N., 70 deg. 37“ W; then northeast to 42 deg. 45“ N., 70 deg. 13“ W; then southeast to 42 deg. 10“ N., 68 deg. 31 W, then south to 41 deg. 00“ N., 68 deg. 31“ W; then west to 41 deg. 00“ N., 69 deg. 17“ W; then northeast to 42 deg. 05“ N., 70 deg. 02“ W, then west to 42 deg. 04“ N., 70 deg. 10“ W; and then along the Massachusetts shoreline of Cape Cod Bay and Massachusetts Bay back to the point on Cape Ann at 42 deg. 39“ N., 70 deg. 37“ W) and in the coastal waters of the Southeastern United States within about 25 nm along a 90 nm stretch of the Atlantic seaboard (in an area generally extending from the shoreline east to longitude 80 deg. 51.6“ W with the southern and northern boundary at latitudes 30 deg. 00“ N., 31 deg. 27“ N., respectively).
