  (a) Definitions
     For purposes of this section:
    (1) The term ””standard of performance““ means a standard for the control of the discharge of pollutants which reflect the greatest degree of effluent reduction which the Administrator determines to be achievable through application of the best available demonstrated control technology, processes, operating methods, or other alternatives, including, where practicable, a standard permitting no discharge of pollutants.
    (2) The term ””new source““ means any source, the construction of which is commenced after the publication of proposed regulations prescribing a standard of performance under this section which will be applicable to such source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with this section.
    (3) The term ””source““ means any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is or may be the discharge of pollutants.
    (4) The term ””owner or operator““ means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a source.
    (5) The term ””construction““ means any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment (including contractual obligations to purchase such facilities or equipment) at the premises where such equipment will be used, including preparation work at such premises.
  (b) Categories of sources; Federal standards of performance for new sources
    (1)      (A) The Administrator shall, within ninety days after October 18, 1972, publish (and from time to time thereafter shall revise) a list of categories of sources, which shall, at the minimum, include:
         pulp and paper mills;
         paperboard, builders paper and board mills;
         meat product and rendering processing;
         dairy product processing;
         grain mills;
         canned and preserved fruits and vegetables processing;
         canned and preserved seafood processing;
         sugar processing;
         textile mills;
         cement manufacturing;
         feedlots;
         electroplating;
         organic chemicals manufacturing;
         inorganic chemicals manufacturing;
         plastic and synthetic materials manufacturing;
         soap and detergent manufacturing;
         fertilizer manufacturing;
         petroleum refining;
         iron and steel manufacturing;
         nonferrous metals manufacturing;
         phosphate manufacturing;
         steam electric powerplants;
         ferroalloy manufacturing;
         leather tanning and finishing;
         glass and asbestos manufacturing;
         rubber processing; and
         timber products processing.
      (B) As soon as practicable, but in no case more than one year, after a category of sources is included in a list under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the Administrator shall propose and publish regulations establishing Federal standards of performance for new sources within such category. The Administrator shall afford interested persons an opportunity for written comment on such proposed regulations. After considering such comments, he shall promulgate, within one hundred and twenty days after publication of such proposed regulations, such standards with such adjustments as he deems appropriate. The Administrator shall, from time to time, as technology and alternatives change, revise such standards following the procedure required by this subsection for promulgation of such standards. Standards of performance, or revisions thereof, shall become effective upon promulgation. In establishing or revising Federal standards of performance for new sources under this section, the Administrator shall take into consideration the cost of achieving such effluent reduction, and any non-water quality, environmental impact and energy requirements.
    (2) The Administrator may distinguish among classes, types, and sizes within categories of new sources for the purpose of establishing such standards and shall consider the type of process employed (including whether batch or continuous).
    (3) The provisions of this section shall apply to any new source owned or operated by the United States.
  (c) State enforcement of standards of performance
     Each State may develop and submit to the Administrator a procedure under State law for applying and enforcing standards of performance for new sources located in such State. If the Administrator finds that the procedure and the law of any State require the application and enforcement of standards of performance to at least the same extent as required by this section, such State is authorized to apply and enforce such standards of performance (except with respect to new sources owned or operated by the United States).
  (d) Protection from more stringent standards
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any point source the construction of which is commenced after October 18, 1972, and which is so constructed as to meet all applicable standards of performance shall not be subject to any more stringent standard of performance during a ten-year period beginning on the date of completion of such construction or during the period of depreciation or amortization of such facility for the purposes of section 167 or 169 (or both) of title 26 whichever period ends first.
  (e) Illegality of operation of new sources in violation of applicable standards of performance
     After the effective date of standards of performance promulgated under this section, it shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of any new source to operate such source in violation of any standard of performance applicable to such source.
