  (a) Duty of Secretary; Annexes of Convention applicable to seagoing vessels
     Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the Secretary shall administer and enforce the MARPOL Protocol, Annex IV to the Antarctic Protocol, and this chapter. In the administration and enforcement of the MARPOL Protocol and this chapter, Annexes I and II of the Convention apply only to seagoing ships.
  (b) Duty of the Administrator
     In addition to other duties specified in this chapter, the Administrator and the Secretary, respectively, shall have the following duties and authorities:
    (1) The Administrator shall, and no other person may, issue Engine International Air Pollution Prevention certificates in accordance with Annex VI and the International Maritime Organization“s Technical Code on Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides from Marine Diesel Engines, on behalf of the United States for a vessel of the United States as that term is defined in section 116 of title 46. The issuance of Engine International Air Pollution Prevention certificates shall be consistent with any applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act [42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.] or regulations prescribed under that Act.
    (2) The Administrator shall have authority to administer regulations 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19 of Annex VI to the Convention.
    (3) The Administrator shall, only as specified in section 1907(f) of this title, have authority to enforce Annex VI of the Convention.
  (c) Regulations; refuse record books; waste management plans; notification of crew and passengers
    (1) The Secretary shall prescribe any necessary or desired regulations to carry out the provisions of the MARPOL Protocol, Annex IV to the Antarctic Protocol, or this chapter.
    (2) In addition to the authority the Secretary has to prescribe regulations under this chapter, the Administrator shall also prescribe any necessary or desired regulations to carry out the provisions of regulations 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19 of Annex VI to the Convention.
    (3) In prescribing any regulations under this section, the Secretary and the Administrator shall consult with each other, and with respect to regulation 19, with the Secretary of the Interior.
    (4) The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall–
      (A) prescribe regulations which–
        (i) require certain ships described in section 1902(a)(1) of this title to maintain refuse record books and shipboard management plans, and to display placards which notify the crew and passengers of the requirements of Annex V to the Convention and of Annex IV to the Antarctic Protocol; and
        (ii) specify the ships described in section 1902(a)(1) of this title to which the regulations apply;
      (B) seek an international agreement or international agreements which apply requirements equivalent to those described in subparagraph (A)(i) to all vessels subject to Annex V to the Convention; and
      (C) within 2 years after the effective date of this paragraph, report to the Congress–
        (i) regarding activities of the Secretary under subparagraph (B); and
        (ii) if the Secretary has not obtained agreements pursuant to subparagraph (B) regarding the desirability of applying the requirements described in subparagraph (A)(i) to all vessels described in section 1902(a) of this title which call at United States ports.
    (5) No standard issued by any person or Federal authority, with respect to emissions from tank vessels subject to regulation 15 of Annex VI to the Convention, shall be effective until 6 months after the required notification to the International Maritime Organization by the Secretary.
  (d) Utilization of personnel, facilities, or equipment of other Federal departments and agencies
     The Secretary may utilize by agreement, with or without reimbursement, personnel, facilities, or equipment of other Federal departments and agencies in administering the MARPOL Protocol, this chapter, or the regulations thereunder.
