  (a) Keeping near to outer limit of channel or fairway which lies on vessel“s starboard side; exception
    (i) A vessel proceeding along the course of a narrow channel or fairway shall keep as near to the outer limit of the channel or fairway which lies on her starboard side as is safe and practicable.
    (ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(i) and Rule 14(a), a power-driven vessel operating in narrow channels or fairways on the Great Lakes, Western Rivers, or waters specified by the Secretary, and proceeding downbound with a following current shall have the right-of-way over an upbound vessel, shall propose the manner and place of passage, and shall initiate the maneuvering signals prescribed by Rule 34(a)(i), as appropriate. The vessel proceeding upbound against the current shall hold as necessary to permit safe passing.
  (b) Vessels of less than 20 meters in length; sailing vessels
     A vessel of less than 20 meters in length or a sailing vessel shall not impede the passage of a vessel that can safely navigate only within a narrow channel or fairway.
  (c) Vessels engaged in fishing
     A vessel engaged in fishing shall not impede the passage of any other vessel navigating within a narrow channel or fairway.
  (d) Crossing narrow channels or fairways
     A vessel shall not cross a narrow channel or fairway if such crossing impedes the passage of a vessel which can safely navigate only within that channel or fairway. The latter vessel shall use the danger signal prescribed in Rule 34(d) if in doubt as to the intention of the crossing vessel.
  (e) Overtaking vessels
    (i) In a narrow channel or fairway when overtaking, the power-driven vessel intending to overtake another power-driven vessel shall indicate her intention by sounding the appropriate signal prescribed in Rule 34(c) and take steps to permit safe passing. The power-driven vessel being overtaken, if in agreement, shall sound the same signal and may, if specifically agreed to \1\N take steps to permit safe passing. If in doubt she shall sound the danger signal prescribed in Rule 34(d).
    (ii) This Rule does not relieve the overtaking vessel of her obligation under Rule 13.
  (f) Areas of obscured visibility due to intervening obstructions
     A vessel nearing a bend or an area of a narrow channel or fairway where other vessels may be obscured by an intervening obstruction shall navigate with particular alertness and caution and shall sound the appropriate signal prescribed in Rule 34(e).
  (g) Avoidance of anchoring in narrow channels
     Every vessel shall, if the circumstances of the case admit, avoid anchoring in a narrow channel.
