  (a) Preparation of reports
    (1) In general
       In the case of any water resources project-related study authorized to be undertaken by the Secretary that results in recommendations concerning a project or the operation of a project and that requires specific authorization by Congress in law or otherwise, the Secretary shall perform a reconnaissance study and prepare a feasibility report, subject to section 2215 of this title.
    (2) Contents of feasibility reports
       A feasibility report shall describe, with reasonable certainty, the economic, environmental, and social benefits and detriments of the recommended plan and alternative plans considered by the Secretary and the engineering features (including hydrologic and geologic information), the public acceptability, and the purposes, scope, and scale of the recommended plan. A feasibility report shall also include the views of other Federal agencies and non-Federal agencies with regard to the recommended plan, a description of a nonstructural alternative to the recommended plan when such plan does not have significant nonstructural features, and a description of the Federal and non-Federal participation in such plan, and shall demonstrate that States, other non-Federal interests, and Federal agencies have been consulted in the development of the recommended plan.
    (3) Applicability
       This subsection shall not apply to–
      (A) any study with respect to which a report has been submitted to Congress before November 17, 1986;
      (B) any study for a project, which project is authorized for construction by this Act and is not subject to section 903(b);\1\N
      (C) any study for a project which does not require specific authorization by Congress in law or otherwise; and
      (D) general studies not intended to lead to recommendation of a specific water resources project.
    (4) Feasibility report defined
       In this subsection, the term ””feasibility report““ means each feasibility report, and any associated environmental impact statement and mitigation plan, prepared by the Corps of Engineers for a water resources project. The term includes a project implementation report prepared under title VI of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 2680–2694), a general reevaluation report, and a limited reevaluation report.
  (b) Reconnaissance studies
     Before initiating any feasibility study under subsection (a) of this section after November 17, 1986, the Secretary shall first perform, at Federal expense, a reconnaissance study of the water resources problem in order to identify potential solutions to such problem in sufficient detail to enable the Secretary to determine whether or not planning to develop a project should proceed to the preparation of a feasibility report. Such reconnaissance study shall include a preliminary analysis of the Federal interest, costs, benefits, and environmental impacts of such project, and an estimate of the costs of preparing the feasibility report. The duration of a reconnaissance study shall normally be no more than twelve months, but in all cases is to be limited to eighteen months.
  (c) Projects not specifically authorized by Congress
     In the case of any water resources project-related study authorized to be undertaken by the Secretary without specific authorization by Congress in law or otherwise, the Secretary shall prepare a detailed project report.
  (d) Indian tribes
     For purposes of studies undertaken pursuant to this section, the Secretary is authorized to consider benefits which may accrue to Indian tribes as a result of a project resulting from such a study.
  (e) Standard and uniform procedures and practices
     The Secretary shall undertake such measures as are necessary to ensure that standard and uniform procedures and practices are followed by each district office (and each division office for any area in which there is no district office) of the United States Army Corps of Engineers in the preparation of feasibility reports on water resources projects.
  (f) Enhanced public participation
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall establish procedures to enhance public participation in the development of each feasibility study under subsection (a) of this section, including, if appropriate, establishment of a stakeholder advisory group to assist the Secretary with the development of the study.
    (2) Membership
       If the Secretary provides for the establishment of a stakeholder advisory group under this subsection, the membership of the advisory group shall include balanced representation of social, economic, and environmental interest groups, and such members shall serve on a voluntary, uncompensated basis.
    (3) Limitation
       Procedures established under this subsection shall not delay development of any feasibility study under subsection (a) of this section.
