  (a) Program authority
     The Secretary shall undertake a program of research for the control of ice, and to assist communities in breaking up ice, which otherwise is likely to cause or aggravate flood damage or severe streambank erosion.
  (b) Assistance to units of local government
     The Secretary is further authorized to provide technical assistance to units of local government to implement local plans to control or break up such ice. As part of such authority, the Secretary shall acquire necessary ice-control or ice-breaking equipment, which shall be loaned to units of local government together with operating assistance, where appropriate.
  (c) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 per fiscal year for each of the fiscal years 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, and 1992 for purposes of carrying out subsections (a) and (b) of this section, such sums to remain available until expended.
  (d) Hardwick, Vermont, demonstration program
     To implement further the purposes of this section, the Secretary, in consultation and cooperation with local officials, is authorized and directed to undertake a demonstration program for the control of ice at Hardwick, Vermont. The work authorized by this subsection shall be designed to minimize the danger of flooding due to ice problems in the vicinity of such community. In the design, construction, and location of ice-control structures for this project, full consideration will be given to the recreational, scenic, and environmental values of the reach of river affected by the project, in order to minimize project impacts on these values. Full opportunity shall be given to interested environmental and recreational organizations to participate in such planning. There is authorized to be appropriated $900,000 for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1986, for the purposes of carrying out this subsection, such sum to remain available until expended.
  (e) Salmon, Idaho, experimental program
    (1) The Secretary is directed to complete an experimental program placing screens in the Salmon River in the vicinity of Salmon, Idaho, to trap frazil ice, and thus to eliminate flooding caused by ice dams in the river. Within one year of November 17, 1986, the Secretary shall report to the Congress on the feasibility of such experiment, including consideration of any adverse environmental or social effects that could result from such experiment. If, in the Secretary“s judgment, such experiment is not feasible or acceptable, the Secretary is authorized to consult with local public interests to develop a plan that is workable and practical, and then to submit such plan to Congress.
    (2) There is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1986, for purposes of carrying out this subsection, such sum to remain available until expended.
  (f) Wilmington, Illinois, project
    (1) To implement further the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall carry out a project for the control of ice on the Kankakee River in the vicinity of Wilmington, Illinois. The Secretary shall report to Congress not later than one year after November 17, 1986, and annually thereafter on the effectiveness of the program under this section with respect to the Kankakee River in the vicinity of Wilmington, Illinois.
    (2) There is authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1986, for purposes of carrying out this subsection, such sum to remain available until expended.
  (g) Cost sharing
     Cost sharing applicable to flood control projects under section 2213 of this title shall apply to projects under this section.
  (h) Report to Congress
     Not later than March 1, 1989, the Secretary shall report to the Congress on activities under this section.
