  (a) Additional capacity
    (1) Provided by Secretary
       At the request of a non-Federal interest with respect to a project, the Secretary may provide additional capacity at a dredged material disposal facility constructed by the Secretary beyond the capacity that would be required for project purposes if the non-Federal interest agrees to pay, during the period of construction, all costs associated with the construction of the additional capacity.
    (2) Cost recovery authority
       The non-Federal interest may recover the costs assigned to the additional capacity through fees assessed on third parties whose dredged material is deposited at the facility and who enter into agreements with the non-Federal interest for the use of the facility. The amount of such fees may be determined by the non-Federal interest.
  (b) Non-Federal use of disposal facilities
    (1) In general
       The Secretary–
      (A) may permit the use of any dredged material disposal facility under the jurisdiction of, or managed by, the Secretary by a non-Federal interest if the Secretary determines that such use will not reduce the availability of the facility for project purposes; and
      (B) may impose fees to recover capital, operation, and maintenance costs associated with such use.
    (2) Use of fees
       Notwithstanding section 1341(c) of this title but subject to advance appropriations, any monies received through collection of fees under this subsection shall be available to the Secretary, and shall be used by the Secretary, for the operation and maintenance of the disposal facility from which the fees were collected.
  (c) Public-private partnerships
    (1) In general
       The Secretary may carry out a program to evaluate and implement opportunities for public-private partnerships in the design, construction, management, or operation of dredged material disposal facilities in connection with construction or maintenance of Federal navigation projects. If a non-Federal interest is a sponsor of the project, the Secretary shall consult with the non-Federal interest in carrying out the program with respect to the project.
    (2) Private financing
      (A) Agreements
         In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary may enter into an agreement with a non-Federal interest with respect to a project, a private entity, or both for the acquisition, design, construction, management, or operation of a dredged material disposal facility (including any facility used to demonstrate potential beneficial uses of dredged material) using funds provided in whole or in part by the private entity.
      (B) Reimbursement
         If any funds provided by a private entity are used to carry out a project under this subsection, the Secretary may reimburse the private entity over a period of time agreed to by the parties to the agreement through the payment of subsequent user fees. Such fees may include the payment of a disposal or tipping fee for placement of suitable dredged material at the facility.
      (C) Amount of fees
         User fees paid pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be sufficient to repay funds contributed by the private entity plus a reasonable return on investment approved by the Secretary in cooperation with the non-Federal interest with respect to the project and the private entity.
      (D) Federal share
         The Federal share of such fees shall be equal to the percentage of the total cost that would otherwise be borne by the Federal Government as required pursuant to existing cost-sharing requirements, including section 2213 of this title and section 2326 of this title.
      (E) Budget Act compliance
         Any spending authority (as defined in section 651(c)(2) of title 2) authorized by this section shall be effective only to such extent and in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts.
