  (a) In general
     The Secretary may enter into cooperation agreements with non-Federal interests with respect to navigation projects, or other appropriate non-Federal entities, for the development of long-term management strategies for controlling sediments at such projects.
  (b) Contents of strategies
     Each strategy developed under subsection (a) of this section shall–
    (1) include assessments of sediment rates and composition, sediment reduction options, dredging practices, long-term management of any dredged material disposal facilities, remediation of such facilities, and alternative disposal and reuse options;
    (2) include a timetable for implementation of the strategy; and
    (3) incorporate relevant ongoing planning efforts, including remedial action planning, dredged material management planning, harbor and waterfront development planning, and watershed management planning.
  (c) Consultation
     In developing strategies under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall consult with interested Federal agencies, States, and Indian tribes and provide an opportunity for public comment.
  (d) Dredged material disposal
    (1) Study
       The Secretary shall conduct a study to determine the feasibility of constructing and operating an underwater confined dredged material disposal site in the Port of New York-New Jersey that could accommodate as much as 250,000 cubic yards of dredged material for the purpose of demonstrating the feasibility of an underwater confined disposal pit as an environmentally suitable method of containing certain sediments.
    (2) Report
       The Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report on the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1), together with any recommendations of the Secretary that may be developed in a strategy under subsection (a) of this section.
  (e) Great Lakes tributary model
    (1) In general
       In consultation and coordination with the Great Lakes States, the Secretary shall develop a tributary sediment transport model for each major river system or set of major river systems depositing sediment into a Great Lakes federally authorized commercial harbor, channel maintenance project site, or Area of Concern identified under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement of 1978. Such model may be developed as a part of a strategy developed under subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) Requirements for models
       In developing a tributary sediment transport model under this subsection, the Secretary shall build on data and monitoring information generated in earlier studies and programs of the Great Lakes and their tributaries.
    (3) Report
       Not later than December 31, 2003, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report on the Secretary“s activities under this subsection.
  (f) ””Great Lakes States““ defined
     In this section, the term ””Great Lakes States““ means the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
    (1) In general
       There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2001.
    (2) Great Lakes tributary model
       In addition to amounts made available under paragraph (1), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (e) of this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2012.
