  (a) Projects subject to safety assurance review
     The Chief of Engineers shall ensure that the design and construction activities for hurricane and storm damage reduction and flood damage reduction projects are reviewed by independent experts under this section if the Chief of Engineers determines that a review by independent experts is necessary to assure public health, safety, and welfare.
  (b) Factors
     In determining whether a review of design and construction of a project is necessary under this section, the Chief of Engineers shall consider whether–
    (1) the failure of the project would pose a significant threat to human life;
    (2) the project involves the use of innovative materials or techniques;
    (3) the project design lacks redundancy; or
    (4) the project has a unique construction sequencing or a reduced or overlapping design construction schedule.
  (c) Safety assurance review
    (1) Initiation of review
       At the appropriate point in the development of detailed engineering and design specifications for each water resources project subject to review under this section, the Chief of Engineers shall initiate a safety assurance review by independent experts on the design and construction activities for the project.
    (2) Selection of reviewers
       A safety assurance review under this section shall include participation by experts selected by the Chief of Engineers from among individuals who are distinguished experts in engineering, hydrology, or other appropriate disciplines. The Chief of Engineers shall apply the National Academy of Science“s policy for selecting reviewers to ensure that reviewers have no conflict of interest with the project being reviewed.
    (3) Compensation
       An individual serving as an independent reviewer under this section shall be compensated at a rate of pay to be determined by the Secretary and shall be allowed travel expenses.
  (d) Scope of safety assurance reviews
     A safety assurance review under this section shall include a review of the design and construction activities prior to the initiation of physical construction and periodically thereafter until construction activities are completed on a regular schedule sufficient to inform the Chief of Engineers on the adequacy, appropriateness, and acceptability of the design and construction activities for the purpose of assuring public health, safety, and welfare. The Chief of Engineers shall ensure that reviews under this section do not create any unnecessary delays in design and construction activities.
  (e) Safety assurance review record
     The written recommendations of a reviewer or panel of reviewers under this section and the responses of the Chief of Engineers shall be available to the public, including through electronic means on the Internet.
  (f) Applicability
     This section shall apply to any project in design or under construction on November 8, 2007, and to any project with respect to which design or construction is initiated during the period beginning on November 8, 2007, and ending 7 years after November 8, 2007.
