   In this chapter–
  (1) ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (2) ””coastal waters““ means–
    (A) the territorial sea of the United States;
    (B) the Great Lakes and their connecting waters;
    (C) the marine and estuarine waters of the United States up to the head of tidal influence; and
    (D) the Exclusive Economic Zone as established by Presidential Proclamation Number 5030, dated March 10, 1983.
  (3) ””municipal or commercial waste““ means solid waste (as defined in section 6903 of title 42) except–
    (A) solid waste identified and listed under section 6921 of title 42;
    (B) waste generated by the vessel during normal operations;
    (C) debris solely from construction activities;
    (D) sewage sludge subject to regulation under title I of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 [33 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.]; and
    (E) dredged or fill material subject to regulation under title I of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 [33 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.], the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), or the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1899 (33 U.S.C. 401 et seq.).
  (4) ””person““ means an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation (including a government corporation), partnership, association, State, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a State, or any interstate body.
  (5) ””receiving facility““ means a facility or operation where municipal or commercial waste is unloaded from a vessel.
  (6) ””United States““, when used in a geographic sense, means the States of the United States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (7) ””waste source““ means a facility or vessel from which municipal or commercial waste is loaded onto a vessel, including any rolling stock or motor vehicles from which that waste is directly loaded.
