  (a) Establishment
     There is established a committee to be known as the ””Committee on Levee Safety““.
  (b) Membership
     The committee shall be composed of 16 members as follows:
    (1) The Secretary (or the Secretary“s designee), who shall serve as the chairperson of the Committee.\1\N
    (2) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (or the Administrator“s designee).
    (3) The following 14 members appointed by the Secretary:
      (A) Eight representatives of State levee safety agencies, one from each of the eight civil works divisions of the Corps of Engineers.
      (B) Two representatives of the private sector who have expertise in levee safety.
      (C) Two representatives of local and regional governmental agencies who have expertise in levee safety.
      (D) Two representatives of Indian tribes who have expertise in levee safety.
  (c) Duties
    (1) Development of recommendations for national levee safety program
       The committee shall develop recomendations \2\N for a national levee safety program, including a strategic plan for implementation of the program.
    (2) Report
       Not later than 180 days after November 8, 2007, the committee shall submit to the Secretary, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report containing the recommendations developed under paragraph (1).
  (d) Purposes
     In developing recommendations under subsection (c)(1), the committee shall ensure that the national levee safety program meets the following goals:
    (1) Ensuring the protection of human life and property by levees through the development of technologically, economically, socially, and environmentally feasible programs and procedures for hazard reduction and mitigation relating to levees.
    (2) Encouraging use of the best available engineering policies and procedures for levee site investigation, design, construction, operation and maintenance, and emergency preparedness.
    (3) Encouraging the establishment and implementation of an effective national levee safety program that may be delegated to qualified States for implementation, including identification of incentives and disincentives for State levee safety programs.
    (4) Ensuring that levees are operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate and protective standards by conducting an inventory and inspection of levees.
    (5) Developing and supporting public education and awareness projects to increase public acceptance and support of State and national levee safety programs.
    (6) Building public awareness of the residual risks associated with living in levee protected areas.
    (7) Developing technical assistance materials for State and national levee safety programs.
    (8) Developing methods to provide technical assistance relating to levee safety to non-Federal entities.
    (9) Developing technical assistance materials, seminars, and guidelines relating to the physical integrity of levees in the United States.
  (e) Compensation of members
     A member of the committee shall serve without compensation.
  (f) Travel expenses
     Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall reimburse a member of the committee for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of a Federal agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in performance of services for the committee.
  (g) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act
     The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the committee.
