   In this chapter:
  (1) Administrator
     The term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (2) Antifouling system
     The term ””antifouling system““ means a coating, paint, surface treatment, surface, or device that is used or intended to be used on a vessel to control or prevent attachment of unwanted organisms.
  (3) Convention
     The term ””Convention““ means the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Ships, 2001, including its annexes, and including any amendments to the Convention or annexes which have entered into force for the United States.
  (4) FPSO
     The term ””FPSO““ means a floating production, storage, or offloading unit.
  (5) FSU
     The term ””FSU““ means a floating storage unit.
  (6) Gross tonnage
     The term ””gross tonnage““ as defined in chapter 143 of title 46 means the gross tonnage calculated in accordance with the tonnage measurement regulations contained in annex 1 to the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969.
  (7) International voyage
     The term ””international voyage““ means a voyage by a vessel entitled to fly the flag of one country to or from a port, shipyard, offshore terminal, or other place under the jurisdiction of another country.
  (8) Organotin
     The term ””organotin““ means any compound or additive of tin bound to an organic ligand, that is used or intended to be used as biocide in an antifouling system.
  (9) Person
     The term ””person““ means–
    (A) any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or organized group of persons whether incorporated or not;
    (B) any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, except as provided in section 3802(b)(2) of this title; or
    (C) any other government entity.
  (10) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating.
  (11) Sell or distribute
     The term ””sell or distribute““ means to distribute, sell, offer for sale, hold for distribution, hold for sale, hold for shipment, ship, deliver for shipment, release for shipment, import, export, hold for import, hold for export, or receive and (having so received) deliver or offer to deliver.
  (12) Vessel
     The term ””vessel““ has the meaning given that term in section 3 of title 1, including hydrofoil boats, air cushion watercraft, submersibles, floating craft, fixed or floating platforms, floating storage units, and floating production, storage, and offloading units.
  (13) Territorial sea
     The term ””territorial sea““ means the territorial sea as described in Presidential Proclamation No. 5928 on December 27, 1988.
  (14) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and any other territory or possession over which the United States has jurisdiction.
  (15) Use
     The term ””use““ includes application, reapplication, installation, or any other employment of an antifouling system.
