  (a) The Secretary of the Treasury may mint and issue only the following coins:
    (1) a dollar coin that is 1.043 inches in diameter and weighs 8.1 grams.
    (2) a half dollar coin that is 1.205 inches in diameter and weighs 11.34 grams.
    (3) a quarter dollar coin that is 0.955 inch in diameter and weighs 5.67 grams.
    (4) a dime coin that is 0.705 inch in diameter and weighs 2.268 grams.
    (5) a 5-cent coin that is 0.835 inch in diameter and weighs 5 grams.
    (6) except as provided under subsection (c) of this section, a one-cent coin that is 0.75 inch in diameter and weighs 3.11 grams.
    (7) A fifty dollar gold coin that is 32.7 millimeters in diameter, weighs 33.931 grams, and contains one troy ounce of fine gold.
    (8) A twenty-five dollar gold coin that is 27.0 millimeters in diameter, weighs 16.966 grams, and contains one-half troy ounce of fine gold.
    (9) A ten dollar gold coin that is 22.0 millimeters in diameter, weighs 8.483 grams, and contains one-fourth troy ounce of fine gold.
    (10) A five dollar gold coin that is 16.5 millimeters in diameter, weighs 3.393 grams, and contains one-tenth troy ounce of fine gold.
  (b) The dollar, half dollar, quarter dollar, and dime coins are clad coins with 3 layers of metal. The 2 identical outer layers are an alloy of 75 percent copper and 25 percent nickel. The inner layer is copper. The outer layers are metallurgically bonded to the inner layer and weigh at least 30 percent of the weight of the coin. The 5-cent coin is an alloy of 75 percent copper and 25 percent nickel. In minting 5-cent coins, the Secretary shall use bars that vary not more than 2.5 percent from the percent of nickel required. Except as provided under subsection (c) of this section, the one-cent coin is an alloy of 95 percent copper and 5 percent zinc. In minting gold coins, the Secretary shall use alloys that vary not more than 0.1 percent from the percent of gold required. The specifications for alloys are by weight.
  (c) The Secretary may prescribe the weight and the composition of copper and zinc in the alloy of the one-cent coin that the Secretary decides are appropriate when the Secretary decides that a different weight and alloy of copper and zinc are necessary to ensure an adequate supply of one-cent coins to meet the needs of the United States.
  (d)    (1) United States coins shall have the inscription ””In God We Trust““. The obverse side of each coin shall have the inscription ””Liberty““. The reverse side of each coin shall have the inscriptions ””United States of America““ and ””E Pluribus Unum““ and a designation of the value of the coin. The design on the reverse side of the dollar, half dollar, and quarter dollar is an eagle. The eagle on the reverse side of the dollar is the symbolic eagle of Apollo 11 landing on the moon. The obverse side of the dollar has the likeness of Susan B. Anthony. The coins have an inscription of the year of minting or issuance. However, to prevent or alleviate a shortage of a denomination, the Secretary may inscribe coins of the denomination with the year that was last inscribed on coins of the denomination.
    (2) The Secretary shall prepare the devices, models, hubs, and dies for coins, emblems, devices, inscriptions, and designs authorized under this chapter. The Secretary may adopt and prepare new designs or models of emblems or devices that are authorized in the same way as when new coins or devices are authorized. The Secretary may change the design or die of a coin only once within 25 years of the first adoption of the design, model, hub, or die for that coin. The Secretary may procure services under section 3109 of title 5 in carrying out this paragraph.
  (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall mint and issue, in quantities sufficient to meet public demand, coins which–
    (1) are 40.6 millimeters in diameter and weigh 31.103 grams;
    (2) contain .999 fine silver;
    (3) have a design–
      (A) symbolic of Liberty on the obverse side; and
      (B) of an eagle on the reverse side;
    (4) have inscriptions of the year of minting or issuance, and the words ””Liberty““, ””In God We Trust““, ””United States of America““, ””1 Oz. Fine Silver““, ””E Pluribus Unum““, and ””One Dollar““; and
    (5) have reeded edges.
  (f) T4Silver Coins.–
    (1) T4Sale priceK.–The Secretary shall sell the coins minted under subsection (e) to the public at a price equal to the market value of the bullion at the time of sale, plus the cost of minting, marketing, and distributing such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and promotional and overhead expenses).
    (2) T4Bulk salesK.–The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins minted under subsection (e) at a reasonable discount.
    (3) T4Numismatic itemsK.–For purposes of section 5132(a)(1) of this title, all coins minted under subsection (e) shall be considered to be numismatic items.
  (g) For purposes of section 5132(a)(1) of this title, all coins minted under subsection (e) of this section shall be considered to be numismatic items.
  (h) The coins issued under this title shall be legal tender as provided in section 5103 of this title.
    (i)      (1) Notwithstanding section 5111(a)(1) of this title, the Secretary shall mint and issue the gold coins described in paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and (10) of subsection (a) of this section, in quantities sufficient to meet public demand, and such gold coins shall–
        (A) have a design determined by the Secretary, except that the fifty dollar gold coin shall have–
          (i) on the obverse side, a design symbolic of Liberty; and
          (ii) on the reverse side, a design representing a family of eagles, with the male carrying an olive branch and flying above a nest containing a female eagle and hatchlings;
        (B) have inscriptions of the denomination, the weight of the fine gold content, the year of minting or issuance, and the words ””Liberty““, ””In God We Trust““, ””United States of America““, and ””E Pluribus Unum““; and
        (C) have reeded edges.
      (2)        (A) The Secretary shall sell the coins minted under this subsection to the public at a price equal to the market value of the bullion at the time of sale, plus the cost of minting, marketing, and distributing such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and promotional and overhead expenses).
        (B) The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins minted under this subsection at a reasonable discount.
      (3) For purposes of section 5132(a)(1) of this title, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.
      (4)        (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary of the Treasury may change the diameter, weight, or design of any coin minted under this subsection or the fineness of the gold in the alloy of any such coin if the Secretary determines that the specific diameter, weight, design, or fineness of gold which differs from that otherwise required by law is appropriate for such coin.
        (B) The Secretary may not mint any coin with respect to which a determination has been made by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date a notice of such determination is published in the Federal Register.
    (j) T4General Waiver of Procurement Regulations.–
      (1) T4In generalK.–Except as provided in paragraph (2), no provision of law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to the procurement of goods or services necessary for minting, marketing, or issuing any coin authorized under paragraph (7), (8), (9), or (10) of subsection (a) or subsection (e), including any proof version of any such coin.
      (2) T4Equal employment opportunityK.–Paragraph (1) shall not relieve any person entering into a contract with respect to any coin referred to in such paragraph from complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.
