  (a)    (1) The Comptroller General and Deputy Comptroller General are appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) When a vacancy occurs in the office of Comptroller General or Deputy Comptroller General, a commission is established to recommend individuals to the President for appointment to the vacant office. The commission shall be composed of–
      (A) the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
      (B) the President pro tempore of the Senate;
      (C) the majority and minority leaders of the House of Representatives and the Senate;
      (D) the chairmen and ranking minority members of the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Government Operations of the House; and
      (E) when the office of Deputy Comptroller General is vacant, the Comptroller General.
    (3) A commission established because of a vacancy in the office of the Comptroller General shall recommend at least 3 individuals. The President may ask the commission to recommend additional individuals.
  (b) Except as provided in subsection (e) of this section, the term of the Comptroller General is 15 years. The Comptroller General may not be reappointed. The term of the Deputy Comptroller General expires on the date an individual is appointed Comptroller General. The Deputy Comptroller General may continue to serve until a successor is appointed.
  (c) The Deputy Comptroller General–
    (1) carries out duties and powers prescribed by the Comptroller General; and
    (2) acts for the Comptroller General when the Comptroller General is absent or unable to serve or when the office of Comptroller General is vacant.
  (d) The Comptroller General shall designate an officer or employee of the General Accounting Office to act as Comptroller General when the Comptroller General and Deputy Comptroller General are absent or unable to serve or when the offices of Comptroller General and Deputy Comptroller General are vacant.
  (e)    (1) A Comptroller General or Deputy Comptroller General may retire after becoming 70 years of age and completing 10 years of service as Comptroller General or Deputy Comptroller General (as the case may be). Either may be removed at any time by–
      (A) impeachment; or
      (B) joint resolution of Congress, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, only for–
        (i) permanent disability;
        (ii) inefficiency;
        (iii) neglect of duty;
        (iv) malfeasance; or
        (v) a felony or conduct involving moral turpitude.
    (2) A Comptroller General or Deputy Comptroller General removed from office under paragraph (1) of this subsection may not be reappointed to the office.
  (f) The annual rate of basic pay of the–
    (1) Comptroller General is equal to the rate for level II of the Executive Schedule; and
    (2) Deputy Comptroller General is equal to the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule.
