  (a) Establishment
     No later than 1 year after December 19, 2002, the Secretary shall establish the Hydrographic Services Review Panel.
  (b) Duties
    (1) In general
       The panel shall advise the Administrator on matters related to the responsibilities and authorities set forth in section 892a of this title and such other appropriate matters as the Administrator refers to the panel for review and advice.
    (2) Administrative resources
       The Administrator shall make available to the panel such information, personnel, and administrative services and assistance as it may reasonably require to carry out its duties.
  (c) Membership
    (1) In general
      (A) The panel shall consist of 15 voting members who shall be appointed by the Administrator. The Co-directors of the Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping/Joint Hydrographic Center and no more than 2 employees of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration appointed by the Administrator shall serve as nonvoting members of the panel. The voting members of the panel shall be individuals who, by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, are especially qualified in 1 or more of the disciplines and fields relating to hydrographic data and hydrographic services, marine transportation, port administration, vessel pilotage, coastal and fishery management, and other disciplines as determined appropriate by the Administrator.
      (B) An individual may not be appointed as a voting member of the panel if the individual is a full-time officer or employee of the United States.
      (C) Any voting member of the panel who is an applicant for, or beneficiary (as determined by the Secretary) of, any assistance under this subchapter shall disclose to the panel that relationship, and may not vote on any matter pertaining to that assistance.
    (2) Terms
      (A) The term of office of a voting member of the panel shall be 4 years, except that of the original appointees, five shall be appointed for a term of 2 years, five shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, and five shall be appointed for a term of 4 years, as specified by the Administrator at the time of appointment.
      (B) Any individual appointed to a partial or full term may be reappointed for one additional full term. A voting member may serve after the date of the expiration of the term of office for which appointed until his or her successor has taken office.
    (3) Nominations
       At least once each year, the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting nominations for membership on the panel.
    (4) Chairman and Vice Chairman
      (A) The panel shall select one voting member to serve as the Chairman and another voting member to serve as the Vice Chairman.
      (B) The Vice Chairman shall act as Chairman in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman.
  (d) Compensation
     Voting members of the panel shall–
    (1) receive compensation at a rate established by the Secretary, not to exceed the maximum daily rate payable under section 5376 of title 5 when actually engaged in the performance of duties for such panel; and
    (2) be reimbursed for actual and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of such duties.
  (e) Meetings
     The panel shall meet on a biannual basis and, at any other time, at the call of the Chairman or upon the request of a majority of the voting members or of the Secretary.
  (f) Powers
     The panel may exercise such powers as are reasonably necessary in order to carry out its duties under subsection (b) of this section.
