  (a)    (1) The financial statements of Government corporations shall be audited by the Inspector General of the corporation appointed under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or under other Federal law, or by an independent external auditor, as determined by the Inspector General or, if there is no Inspector General, by the head of the corporation.
    (2) Audits under this section shall be conducted in accordance with applicable generally accepted government auditing standards.
    (3) Upon completion of the audit required by this subsection, the person who audits the statement shall submit a report on the audit to the head of the Government corporation, to the Chairman of the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, and to the Chairman of the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    (4) The Comptroller General of the United States–
      (A) may review any audit of a financial statement conducted under this subsection by an Inspector General or an external auditor;
      (B) shall report to the Congress, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the head of the Government corporation which prepared the statement, regarding the results of the review and make any recommendation the Comptroller General of the United States considers appropriate; and
      (C) may audit a financial statement of a Government corporation at the discretion of the Comptroller General or at the request of a committee of the Congress.
         An audit the Comptroller General performs under this paragraph shall be in lieu of the audit otherwise required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. Prior to performing such audit, the Comptroller General shall consult with the Inspector General of the agency which prepared the statement.
    (5) A Government corporation shall reimburse the Comptroller General of the United States for the full cost of any audit conducted by the Comptroller General under this subsection, as determined by the Comptroller General. All reimbursements received under this paragraph by the Comptroller General of the United States shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
  (b) Upon request of the Comptroller General of the United States, a Government corporation shall provide to the Comptroller General of the United States all books, accounts, financial records, reports, files, workpapers, and property belonging to or in use by the Government corporation and its auditor that the Comptroller General of the United States considers necessary to the performance of any audit or review under this section.
  (c) Activities of the Comptroller General of the United States under this section are in lieu of any audit of the financial transactions of a Government corporation that the Comptroller General is required to make under any other law.
