  (a) Primary and continuation terms
     Geothermal leases shall be for a primary term of ten years. If geothermal steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities within this term, such lease shall continue for so long thereafter as geothermal steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities, but such continuation shall not exceed an additional forty years.
  (b) Renewal
     If, at the end of such forty years, steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the lessee shall have a preferential right to a renewal of such lease for a second forty-year term in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate.
  (c) Cooperative or unit plan for drilling operations; extension of term; renewal
     Any lease for land on which, or for which under an approved cooperative or unit plan of development or operation, actual drilling operations were commenced prior to the end of its primary term and are being diligently prosecuted at that time shall be extended for five years and so long thereafter, but not more than thirty-five years, as geothermal steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities. If, at the end of such extended term, steam is being produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the lessee shall have a preferential right to a renewal of such lease for a second term in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate.
  (d) ””Produced or utilized in commercial quantities““ defined
     Except as otherwise provided for in this section, for purposes of this section the term ””produced or utilized in commercial quantities““ means the completion of a well producing geothermal steam in commercial quantities. Such term shall also include the completion of a well capable of producing geothermal steam in commercial quantities so long as the Secretary determines that diligent efforts are being made toward the utilization of the geothermal steam.
  (e) Extension of term for byproduct production; conversion of geothermal lease to mineral lease: application, time for completion of location of mineral claims, and Federal agency terms and conditions when conversion affects lands withdrawn or acquired for Federal agency
     Leases which have extended by reasons of production, or which have produced geothermal steam, and have been determined by the Secretary to be incapable of further commercial production and utilization of geothermal steam may be further extended for a period of not more than five years from the date of such determination but only for so long as one or more valuable byproducts are produced in commercial quantities. If such byproducts are leasable under the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 181, et seq.), or under the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands (30 U.S.C. 351–358), and the leasehold is primarily valuable for the production thereof, the lessee shall be entitled to convert his geothermal lease to a mineral lease under, and subject to all the terms and conditions of, such appropriate Act upon application at any time before expiration of the lease extension by reason of byproduct production. The lessee shall be entitled to locate under the mining laws all minerals which are not leasable and which would constitute a byproduct if commercial production or utilization of geothermal steam continued. The lessee in order to acquire the rights herein granted him shall complete the location of mineral claims within ninety days after the termination of the lease for geothermal steam. Any such converted lease or the surface of any mining claim located for geothermal byproducts mineral affecting lands withdrawn or acquired in aid of a function of a Federal department or agency, including the Department of the Interior, shall be subject to such additional terms and conditions as may be prescribed by such department or agency with respect to the additional operations or effects resulting from such conversion upon adequate utilization of the lands for the purpose for which they are administered.
  (f) Principles for location of minerals under mining laws when minerals are not associated with geothermal resources
     Minerals locatable under the mining laws of the United States in lands subject to a geothermal lease issued under the provisions of this chapter which are not associated with the geothermal steam and associated geothermal resources of such lands as defined in section 1001(c) of this title shall be locatable under said mining laws in accordance with the principles of the Multiple Mineral Development Act (68 Stat. 708; found in 30 U.S.C. 521 et seq.).
  (g) Five-year extensions; conditions
    (1) Any geothermal lease issued pursuant to this chapter for land on which, or for which under an approved cooperative or unit plan of development or operation, geothermal steam has not been produced or utilized in commercial quantities by the end of its primary term, or by the end of any extension provided by subsection (c) of this section, may be extended for successive 5-year periods, but totaling not more than 10 years, if the Secretary determines that the lessee has met the bona fide effort requirement of subsection (h) of this section, and either of the following:
      (A) the \1\N payment in lieu of commercial quantities production requirement of subsection (i) of this section.
      (B) The significant expenditure requirement of subsection (j) of this section.
    (2) A lease extended pursuant to paragraph (1) shall continue so long thereafter as geothermal steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities, but such continuation shall not exceed an additional 25 years, for a total of 50 years, if such lease was also the subject of an extension under subsection (c) of this section or an additional 30 years, for a total of 50 years, if such lease is only extended pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (3) If, at the end of either 50-year term referred to in paragraph (2), geothermal steam is being produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the lessee shall have a preferential right to a renewal of such lease for a second term in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate. For purposes of this paragraph only, the term ””produced or utilized in commercial quantities““ means a bona fide sale or the use of geothermal steam by the lessee to generate electricity in marketable quantities.
  (h) Bona fide effort
     To meet the bona fide effort requirement referred to in subsection (g)(1) of this section the lessee must submit a report to the Secretary demonstrating bona fide efforts (as determined by the Secretary) to produce or utilize geothermal steam in commercial quantities for such lease, given the then current economic conditions.
    (i) Payments in lieu of commercial quantities production
      (1) To meet the payments in lieu of commercial quantities production requirement referred to in subsection (g)(1)(A) of this section the lessee must agree to the modification of the terms and conditions of the lease to require annual payments to the Secretary in accordance with this subsection.
      (2) Payments under this subsection shall commence with the first year of the extension. Payments shall be equal to the following:
        (A) In each of the first through the fifth payment years, at least $3.00 per acre or fraction thereof, of lands under lease.
        (B) In each of the sixth through the tenth payment years, at least $6.00 per acre or fraction thereof, of lands under lease.
      (3) Failure to make the payments required by this subsection shall subject the lease to cancellation.
      (4) No payments made pursuant to this subsection shall be required after the earlier of the following:
        (A) The date of termination of the lease.
        (B) The date of relinquishment of the lease.
        (C) The date geothermal steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities from the lease.
      (5) No payments made pursuant to this subsection shall be used to reduce rentals or future production royalties.
    (j) Significant expenditure
      (1) To meet the significant expenditure requirement referred to in subsection (g)(1)(B) of this section the lessee must demonstrate to the Secretary on an annual basis during an extension that a significant expenditure of funds is being made on the lease.
      (2) The following expenditures made by the lessee shall qualify as meeting the requirement of this subsection:
        (A) Expenditures to conduct actual drilling operations on the lease, such as for exploratory or development wells, or geochemical or geophysical surveys for exploratory or development wells.
        (B) Expenditures for road or generating facilities construction on the lease.
        (C) Architectural or engineering services procured for the design of generating facilities to be located on the lease.
        (D) Environmental studies required by State or Federal law.
      (3) Expenditures shall be equal to the following:
        (A) In each of the first through the fifth years, at least $15.00 per acre or fraction thereof, of lands under lease.
        (B) In each of the sixth through the tenth years, at least $18.00 per acre or fraction thereof, of lands under lease.
      (4) Failure to make the expenditures required by this subsection shall subject the lease to cancellation.
      (5) No expenditures made pursuant to this subsection shall be required after the date geothermal steam is produced or utilized in commercial quantities from the lease.
      (6) Expenditures made pursuant to this subsection shall be in lieu of any minimum per acre diligent exploration expenditure requirement in effect for the lease at the end of its primary term, or at the end of any extension provided by subsection (c) of this section, as the case may be.
