  (a) Establishment; purposes for which Fund moneys may be expended
     There is established in the Treasury of the United States a Geothermal Resources Development Fund, which shall be available to the head of the designated agency for carrying out the loan guaranty and interest assistance program authorized by this subchapter, including the payment of administrative expenses incurred in connection therewith. Moneys in the fund not needed for current operations may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be invested in bonds or other obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States.
  (b) Deposits into the Fund
     There shall be paid into the fund the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 1164(c) of this title and such amounts as may be returned to the United States pursuant to section 1142(b) of this title, and the amounts in the fund shall remain available until expended, except that after the expiration of the ten-year period established by section 1143 of this title, such amounts in the fund which are not required to secure outstanding guaranty obligations shall be paid into the general fund of the Treasury.
  (c) Borrowing authority of Secretary of Energy
     If at any time the moneys available in the fund are insufficient to enable the Secretary of Energy to discharge his responsibilities under this subchapter, he shall issue to the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations in such forms and denominations bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. This borrowing authority shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are specified in appropriation Acts. Such authorizations may be without fiscal year limitations. Redemption of such notes or obligations shall be made by the Secretary of Energy from appropriations or other moneys available under this section. Such notes or other obligations shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, which shall not be less than a rate determined by taking into consideration the average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of the notes or other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase any notes or other obligations issued hereunder and for that purpose he is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under that chapter are extended to include any purchase of such notes or obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired by him under this subsection. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States.
  (d) Omitted
