  (a) Arbitration proceedings; matters subject to arbitration, procedures applicable, etc.
    (1) Any dispute between an employer and the plan sponsor of a multiemployer plan concerning a determination made under sections 1381 through 1399 of this title shall be resolved through arbitration. Either party may initiate the arbitration proceeding within a 60-day period after the earlier of–
      (A) the date of notification to the employer under section 1399(b)(2)(B) of this title, or
      (B) 120 days after the date of the employer“s request under section 1399(b)(2)(A) of this title.
         The parties may jointly initiate arbitration within the 180-day period after the date of the plan sponsor“s demand under section 1399(b)(1) of this title.
    (2) An arbitration proceeding under this section shall be conducted in accordance with fair and equitable procedures to be promulgated by the corporation. The plan sponsor may purchase insurance to cover potential liability of the arbitrator. If the parties have not provided for the costs of the arbitration, including arbitrator“s fees, by agreement, the arbitrator shall assess such fees. The arbitrator may also award reasonable attorney“s fees.
    (3)      (A) For purposes of any proceeding under this section, any determination made by a plan sponsor under sections 1381 through 1399 of this title and section 1405 of this title is presumed correct unless the party contesting the determination shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the determination was unreasonable or clearly erroneous.
      (B) In the case of the determination of a plan“s unfunded vested benefits for a plan year, the determination is presumed correct unless a party contesting the determination shows by a preponderance of evidence that–
        (i) the actuarial assumptions and methods used in the determination were, in the aggregate, unreasonable (taking into account the experience of the plan and reasonable expectations), or
        (ii) the plan“s actuary made a significant error in applying the actuarial assumptions or methods.
  (b) Alternative collection proceedings; civil action subsequent to arbitration award; conduct of arbitration proceedings
    (1) If no arbitration proceeding has been initiated pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the amounts demanded by the plan sponsor under section 1399(b)(1) of this title shall be due and owing on the schedule set forth by the plan sponsor. The plan sponsor may bring an action in a State or Federal court of competent jurisdiction for collection.
    (2) Upon completion of the arbitration proceedings in favor of one of the parties, any party thereto may bring an action, no later than 30 days after the issuance of an arbitrator“s award, in an appropriate United States district court in accordance with section 1451 of this title to enforce, vacate, or modify the arbitrator“s award.
    (3) Any arbitration proceedings under this section shall, to the extent consistent with this subchapter, be conducted in the same manner, subject to the same limitations, carried out with the same powers (including subpena power), and enforced in United States courts as an arbitration proceeding carried out under title 9.
  (c) Presumption respecting finding of fact by arbitrator
     In any proceeding under subsection (b) of this section, there shall be a presumption, rebuttable only by a clear preponderance of the evidence, that the findings of fact made by the arbitrator were correct.
  (d) Payments by employer prior and subsequent to determination by arbitrator; adjustments; failure of employer to make payments
     Payments shall be made by an employer in accordance with the determinations made under this part until the arbitrator issues a final decision with respect to the determination submitted for arbitration, with any necessary adjustments in subsequent payments for overpayments or underpayments arising out of the decision of the arbitrator with respect to the determination. If the employer fails to make timely payment in accordance with such final decision, the employer shall be treated as being delinquent in the making of a contribution required under the plan (within the meaning of section 1145 of this title).
  (e) Furnishing of information by plan sponsor to employer respecting computation of withdrawal liability of employer; fees
     If any employer requests in writing that the plan sponsor make available to the employer general information necessary for the employer to compute its withdrawal liability with respect to the plan (other than information which is unique to that employer), the plan sponsor shall furnish the information to the employer without charge. If any employer requests in writing that the plan sponsor make an estimate of such employer“s potential withdrawal liability with respect to the plan or to provide information unique to that employer, the plan sponsor may require the employer to pay the reasonable cost of making such estimate or providing such information.
