  (a) Proposals; proposed designations; requests
    (1) The Governor shall, after receiving the proposal of the State job training coordinating council, publish a proposed designation of service delivery areas for the State each of which–
      (A) is comprised of the State or one or more units of general local government;
      (B) will promote effective delivery of job training services; and
      (C)        (i) is consistent with labor market areas or standard metropolitan statistical areas, but this clause shall not be construed to require designation of an entire labor market area; or
        (ii) is consistent with areas in which related services are provided under other State or Federal programs.
    (2) The Council shall include in its proposal a written explanation of the reasons for designating each service delivery area.
    (3) Units of general local government (and combinations thereof), business organizations, and other affected persons or organizations shall be given an opportunity to comment on the proposed designation of service delivery areas and to request revisions thereof.
    (4)      (A) The Governor shall approve any request to be a service delivery area from–
        (i) any unit of general local government with a population of 200,000 or more;
        (ii) any consortium of contiguous units of general local government with an aggregate population of 200,000 or more which serves a substantial part of one or more labor market areas; and
        (iii) any concentrated employment program grantee for a rural area which served as a prime sponsor under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act.
      (B) The Governor may approve a request to be a service delivery area from any unit of general local government or consortium of contiguous units of general local government, without regard to population, which serves a substantial portion of a labor market area.
      (C) If the Governor denies a request submitted under subparagraph (A) and the entity making such request alleges that the decision of the Governor is contrary to the provisions of this section, such entity may appeal the decision to the Secretary, who shall make a final decision within 30 days after such appeal is received.
  (b) Final designation by Governor
     The Governor shall make a final designation of service delivery areas within the State. Before making a final designation of service delivery areas for the State, the Governor shall review the comments submitted under subsection (a)(3) of this section and requests submitted under subsection (a)(4) of this section.
  (c) Redesignations
    (1) In accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the Governor may redesignate service delivery areas no more frequently than every two years, except as provided for in sections 1516(j)(4)(B) and 1574(b)(1)(B) of this title. Such redesignations shall be made not later than 4 months before the beginning of a program year.
    (2) Subject to paragraph (1), the Governor shall make such a redesignation if a petition to do so is filed by an entity specified in subsection (a)(4)(A) of this section.
    (3) The provisions of this subsection are subject to section 1515(c) of this title.
