  (a) Application of cost limitations
     Except as provided in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 1551(d)(3) of this title, funds expended under this chapter shall be charged to the appropriate cost categories.
  (b) Cost categories and limitations
    (1) The cost limitations contained in this subsection shall apply separately to the funds allocated for programs under part A of subchapter II of this chapter, and to the funds allocated for programs under part C of such subchapter.
    (2) Funds expended under parts A and C of subchapter II of this chapter shall be charged to one of the following categories:
      (A) Administration.
      (B) Training-related and supportive services.
      (C) Direct training services.
    (3) The Secretary shall, consistent with sections 1604(b) and 1644(c) of this title, define by regulation the cost categories specified in paragraph (2).
    (4) Of the funds allocated to a service delivery area for any program year under parts \1\N A or C of subchapter II of this chapter–
      (A) not more than 20 percent shall be expended for administration; and
      (B) not less than 50 percent shall be expended for direct training services.
    (5) Each service delivery area shall ensure that for all services provided to participants through contracts, grants, or other agreements with a service provider, such contract, grant, or agreement shall include appropriate amounts necessary for administration and supportive services.
    (6) For purposes of paragraph (4), the term ””allocated““ means allocated for a program year, as adjusted for reallocations and reallotments under section 1519 of this title and for transfers of funds under sections 1606, 1635, and 1646 of this title.
  (c) Reference to limitations
     Funds available under subchapter III of this chapter shall be expended in accordance with the limitations specified in section 1661d of this title.
  (d) Limitations inapplicable
     The provisions of this section do not apply to any service delivery area designated pursuant to section 1511(a)(4)(A)(iii) of this title.
  (e) No exemption from performance standards
     This section shall not be construed to exempt programs under an approved plan from the performance standards established under section 1516 of this title.
