  (a) Employment conditions; local standards; workers“ compensation; workplace comparability; retirement plan exclusion
    (1) Conditions of employment and training shall be appropriate and reasonable in light of such factors as the type of work, geographical region, and proficiency of the participant.
    (2) Health and safety standards established under State and Federal law, otherwise applicable to working conditions of employees, shall be equally applicable to working conditions of participants. With respect to any participant in a program conducted under this chapter who is engaged in activities which are not covered by health and safety standards under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 [29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.], the Secretary shall prescribe, by regulation, such standards as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of such participants.
    (3) To the extent that a State workers“ compensation law is applicable, workers“ compensation benefits in accordance with such law shall be available with respect to injuries suffered by participants. To the extent that such law is not applicable, each recipient of funds under this chapter shall secure insurance coverage for injuries suffered by such participants, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
    (4) All individuals employed in subsidized jobs shall be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.
    (5) No funds available under this chapter may be used for contributions on behalf of any participant to retirement systems or plans.
  (b) Nondisplacement of local workers; existing collective bargaining agreements; nonavailability for layoff replacement; noninfringement of promotion opportunity
    (1) No currently employed worker shall be displaced by any participant (including partial displacement such as a reduction in the hours of nonovertime work, wages, or employment benefits).
    (2) No program under this chapter shall impair–
      (A) existing contracts for services; or
      (B) existing collective bargaining agreements, unless the employer and the labor organization concur in writing with respect to any elements of the proposed activities which affect such agreement, or either such party fails to respond to written notification requesting its concurrence within 30 days of receipt thereof.
    (3) No participant shall be employed or job opening filled (A) when any other individual is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job, or (B) when the employer has terminated the employment of any regular employee or otherwise reduced its workforce with the intention of filling the vacancy so created by hiring a participant whose wages are subsidized under this chapter.
    (4) No jobs shall be created in a promotional line that will infringe in any way upon the promotional opportunities of currently employed individuals.
  (c) Labor organizations
    (1) Each recipient of funds under this chapter shall provide to the Secretary assurances that none of such funds will be used to assist, promote, or deter union organizing.
    (2) Where a labor organization represents a substantial number of employees who are engaged in similar work or training in the same area as that proposed to be funded under this chapter, an opportunity shall be provided for such organization to submit comments with respect to such proposal.
  (d) Applicability of Federal labor standards
     All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in any construction, alteration, or repair, including painting and decorating, of projects, buildings, and works which are federally assisted under this chapter, shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary in accordance with the Act of March 3, 1931 (40 U.S.C. 276a–276a–5), popularly known as the Davis-Bacon Act. The Secretary shall have, with respect to such labor standards, the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (15 F.R. 3176; 64 Stat. 1267) and section 276c of title 40. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a bona fide trainee in a training program under this chapter. The provisions of section 1577(a)(4) of this title shall apply to such trainees.
