  (a) Sufficiency of records; frequency; standardized records
    (1) Recipients shall keep records that are sufficient to permit the preparation of reports required by this chapter and to permit the tracing of funds to a level of expenditure adequate to insure that the funds have not been spent unlawfully.
    (2) Every recipient shall maintain such records and submit such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary requires regarding the performance of its programs. Such records and reports shall be submitted to the Secretary but shall not be required to be submitted more than once each quarter unless specifically requested by the Congress or a committee thereof.
    (3) In order to allow for the preparation of national estimates necessary to meet the requirements of subsection (c) of this section, recipients shall maintain standardized records for all individual participants and provide to the Secretary a sufficient number of such records to provide for an adequate analysis.
    (4)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), records maintained by recipients pursuant to this subsection shall be made available to the public upon request.
      (B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to–
        (i) information, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; and
        (ii) trade secrets, or commercial or financial information, obtained from a person and privileged or confidential.
      (C) Recipients may charge fees sufficient to recover costs applicable to the processing of requests for records under subparagraph (A).
  (b) Investigations; audit notice
    (1)      (A) In order to evaluate compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Secretary shall conduct, in several States, in each fiscal year investigations of the use of funds received by recipients under this chapter.
      (B) In order to insure compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Comptroller General of the United States may conduct investigations of the use of funds received under this chapter by any recipient.
    (2) In conducting any investigation under this chapter, the Secretary or the Comptroller General of the United States may not request the compilation of any new information not readily available to such recipient.
    (3)      (A) In carrying out any audit under this chapter (other than any initial audit survey or any audit investigating possible criminal or fraudulent conduct), either directly or through grant or contract, the Secretary, the Inspector General, or the Comptroller General shall furnish to the State, administrative entity, recipient, or other entity to be audited, advance notification of the overall objectives and purposes of the audit, and any extensive recordkeeping or data requirements to be met, not fewer than 14 days (or as soon as practicable), prior to the commencement of the audit.
      (B) If the scope, objectives, or purposes of the audit change substantially during the course of the audit, the entity being audited shall be notified of the change as soon as practicable.
      (C) The reports on the results of such audits shall cite the law, regulation, policy, or other criteria applicable to any finding.
      (D) Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed so as to be inconsistent with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) or government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General.
  (c) Reporting, recordkeeping, and monitoring duties of States, administrative entities, and recipients
     Each State, each administrative entity, and each recipient (other than a subrecipient, grantee or contractor of a recipient) receiving funds under this chapter shall–
    (1) make readily accessible reports concerning its operations and expenditures as shall be prescribed by the Secretary;
    (2) prescribe and maintain comparable management information systems, in accordance with guidelines that shall be prescribed by the Secretary, designed to facilitate the uniform compilation, cross tabulation, and analysis of programmatic, participant, and financial data, on statewide and service delivery area bases, necessary for reporting, monitoring, and evaluating purposes, including data necessary to comply with section 1577 of this title; and
    (3) monitor the performance of service providers in complying with the terms of grants, contracts, or other agreements made pursuant to this chapter.
  (d) Report information
    (1) The reports required in subsection (c) of this section shall include information pertaining to–
      (A) the relevant demographic characteristics (including race, ethnicity, sex, and age) and other related information regarding participants;
      (B) the activities in which participants are enrolled, and the length of time that participants are engaged in such activities;
      (C) program outcomes, including occupations, for participants;
      (D) specified program costs; and
      (E) information necessary to prepare reports to comply with section 1577 of this title.
    (2) The Secretary shall ensure that all elements of the information required for the reports described in paragraph (1) are defined and reported uniformly.
  (e) Record retention
     The Governor shall ensure that requirements are established for retention of all records pertinent to all grants awarded, and contracts and agreements entered into, under this chapter, including financial, statistical, property and participant records and supporting documentation. For funds allotted to a State for any program year, records shall be retained for 2 years following the date on which the annual expenditure report containing the final expenditures charged to such program year“s allotment is submitted to the Secretary. Records for nonexpendable property shall be retained for a period of 3 years after final disposition of the property.
  (f) Substate grantee and service delivery area reports; statewide summary
    (1) Each substate grantee and service delivery area shall submit quarterly financial reports to the Governor with respect to programs under this chapter. Such reports shall include information identifying all program costs by cost category in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and by year of the appropriation.
    (2) Each State shall submit a summary of the reports submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) to the Secretary on a quarterly basis.
  (g) Substate grantee and service delivery area record retention
     Each State, substate grantee, and service delivery area shall maintain records with respect to programs under this chapter that identify–
    (1) any program income or profits earned, including such income or profits earned by subrecipients; and
    (2) any costs incurred (such as stand-in costs) that are otherwise allowable except for funding limitations.
  (h) Biennial study of programs under subchapter II; report to Congress
    (1) The Secretary shall conduct a biennial study on the provision of supportive services under programs conducted pursuant to subchapter II of this chapter. Such study shall identify–
      (A) the amount and proportion of funds expended for supportive services under subchapter II of this chapter;
      (B) the types of supportive services provided;
      (C) the relative share of funds expended for each type of supportive service;
      (D) the characteristics of the participants receiving supportive services; and
      (E) such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
    (2) The Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress containing the results of each study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1).
