  (a) Secretary“s prescription of regulations; publication in Federal Register
     The Secretary may, in accordance with chapter 5 of title 5, prescribe such rules and regulations (including performance standards) as the Secretary deems necessary. Such rules and regulations may include adjustments authorized by section 6504 of title 31. All such rules and regulations shall be published in the Federal Register at least thirty days prior to their effective date. Copies of all such rules and regulations shall be transmitted to the appropriate committees of the Congress at the same time and shall contain, with respect to each material provision of such rules and regulations, citations to the particular substantive section of law which is the basis therefor.
  (b) Acceptance of gift
     The Secretary is authorized, in carrying out this chapter, to accept, purchase, or lease in the name of the department, and employ or dispose of in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter, any money or property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise, and to accept voluntary and uncompensated services notwithstanding the provisions of section 1342 of title 31.
  (c) Secretary“s discretion
     The Secretary may make such grants, contracts, or agreements, establish such procedures and make such payments, in installments and in advance or by way of reimbursement, or otherwise allocate or expend funds under this chapter as necessary to carry out this chapter, including (without regard to the provisions of section 4774(d) \1\N of title 10) expenditures for construction, repairs, and capital improvements, and including necessary adjustments in payments on account of overpayments or underpayments.
  (d) Annual report to Congress
     The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Congress an annual report for employment and training programs. The Secretary shall include in such report–
    (1) a summary of the achievements, failures, and problems of the programs authorized in this chapter in meeting the objective of this chapter;
    (2) a summary of major findings from research, evaluation, pilot projects, and experiments conducted in the previous fiscal year;
    (3) recommendations for program modifications based upon analysis of such findings; and
    (4) such other recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary deems appropriate.
  (e) Annual report on impact of energy development and conservation on employment
     The Secretary shall develop methods to ascertain, and shall ascertain annually, energy development and conservation employment impact data by type and scale of energy technologies used. The Secretary shall present the best available data to the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget as part of the budgetary process and to the appropriate Committees of Congress annually.
