  (a) Retraining services
    (1) Of the funds allocated to a substate grantee under this part for any program year, not less than 50 percent shall be expended for retraining services specified under section 1661c(d) of this title.
    (2) A substate grantee may apply to the Governor for a waiver of the requirement in paragraph (1). Such waiver may not permit less than 30 percent of the funds to be spent for such retraining services. The waiver may be granted in whole or in part if the substate grantee demonstrates that the worker readjustment program in the area will be consistent with the principle that dislocated workers be prepared for occupations or industries with long-term potential. The Governor shall prescribe criteria for the demonstration required by the previous sentence.
    (3) An application for such a waiver shall be submitted at such time and in such form as the Governor may prescribe. The Governor shall provide an opportunity for public comment on the application.
  (b) Needs-related payments and supportive services limitation
     Of the funds allocated to a substate grantee or to the Governor under this part for any program year, not more than 25 percent may be expended to provide needs-related payments and other supportive services.
  (c) Administrative cost limitation
     Of the funds allocated to a substate grantee or to the Governor under this part for any program year, not more than 15 percent may be expended to cover the administrative cost of programs. For purposes of this subsection, administrative cost does not include the cost of activities under section 1661c(b) of this title.
  (d) Combination of funds
     Substate grantees within a State may combine funds under this subchapter for the provision of services to eligible dislocated workers from 2 or more substate areas.
  (e) ””Allocated““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””allocated““,\1\N means allocated for a program year, as adjusted for reallocations between substate areas, and for reallotments in accordance with section 1653 of this title.
