  (a) Authorization for efficiency studies; young adult pilot projects; violent or delinquent youth pilot projects; consultation with similarly concerned State and Federal agencies; funding from substantially similar projects; discretion to waive provisions; inclusion in annual report to Congress
    (1) The Secretary is authorized to undertake experimental, research, or demonstration projects to develop or test ways of better using facilities, encouraging a more rapid adjustment of enrollees to community life that will permit a reduction in their period of enrollment, reducing transportation and support costs, or otherwise promoting greater efficiency and effectiveness in the program. These projects shall include one or more projects providing youth with education, training, and other supportive services on a combined residential and nonresidential basis.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to undertake one or more pilot projects designed to determine the value of Job Corps participation for young adults aged 22 to 24, inclusive.
    (3) The Secretary is authorized to undertake one or more pilot projects designed to involve youth who have a history of serious and violent behavior against persons or property, repetitive delinquent acts, narcotics addiction, or other behavT1iorT1al aberrations.
    (4) Projects under this subsection shall be developed after appropriate consultation with other Federal or State agencies conducting similar or related programs or projects and with the administrative entity in the communities where the projects will be carried out. They may be undertaken jointly with other Federal or federally assisted programs, and funds otherwise available for activities under those programs shall, with the consent of the head of any agency concerned, be available for projects under this section to the extent they include the same or substantially similar activities. The Secretary is authorized to waive any provision of this part which the Secretary finds would prevent the carrying out of elements of projects under this subsection essential to a determination of their feasibility and usefulness. The Secretary shall, in the annual report of the Secretary, report to the Congress concerning the actions taken under this section, including a full description of progress made in connection with combined residential and nonresidential projects.
  (b) Model community vocational education schools and skill centers
     In order to determine whether upgraded vocational education schools could eliminate or substantially reduce the school dropout problem, and to demonstrate how communities could make maximum use of existing educational and training facilities, the Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Education, is authorized to enter into one or more agreements with State educational agencies to pay the cost of establishing and operating model community vocational education schools and skill centers.
  (c) Dissemination of information gained from Job Corps experience; testing of efficacy of various activities and dissemination of results
    (1) The Secretary, through the Job Corps and activities authorized under sections 1732 and 1733 of this title, shall develop and implement activities designed to disseminate information gained from Job Corps program experience which may be of use in the innovation and improvement of related programs. To carry out this purpose, the Secretary may enter into appropriate arrangements with any Federal or State agency.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to develop Job Corps programs to test at various centers the efficacy of selected education or training activities authorized under this chapter or any other Act and to appropriately disseminate the results of such tests. To carry out this purpose, the Secretary may enter into appropriate arrangements with any Federal or State agency.
  (d) Pilot projects to prepare youth for military service; cooperation with the Secretary of Defense; establishment of permanent programs; reimbursement of certain costs by Secretary of Defense in funds, materials, or services
     The Secretary is authorized to enter into appropriate arrangements with the Secretary of Defense for the development of pilot projects at Job Corps centers to prepare youth to qualify for military service. In the event that the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Defense agree that such pilot projects should be expanded into permanent programs, the Secretary may establish such permanent programs within the Job Corps, if the Secretary of Defense agrees (1) to provide 50 percent of the costs attributable to such permanent programs, and (2) to reimburse the Secretary of Labor for an additional amount if more than 50 percent of the enrollees in such programs become members of the Armed Forces. Such additional amount shall be equal to a percentage of such costs which is the percentage by which more than 50 percent of such enrollees become such members. In addition to the provision of funds, such reimbursement may include the provision of equipment, materials, transportation, technical assistance, or other assistance, as specified by the Secretary.
  (e) Pilot projects using community-based organizations
     In order to determine whether community participation as required under section 1701 of this title can be improved through the closer involvement of community-based organizations, the Secretary is authorized to undertake one or more pilot projects utilizing community-based organizations of demonstrated effectiveness for Job Corps center operation. For purposes of such pilot projects, the term ””community-based organizations““ may include nonprofit educational foundations organized on a State or local basis.
