  (a) Maintenance of current multilevel employment data
     The Secretary shall develop and maintain for the Nation, State, and local areas, current employment data by occupation and industry, based on the occupational employment statistics program, including selected sample surveys, and projections by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of employment and openings by occupation.
  (b) Maintenance of job descriptions and requirements
     The Secretary shall maintain descriptions of job duties, training and education requirements, working conditions, and characteristics of occupations.
  (c) Elimination of departmental data systems overlap; coordination with Federal reporting services; use of standard definitions
     In carrying out the provisions of this section, the Secretary shall assure that–
    (1) departmental data collecting and processing systems are consolidated to eliminate overlap and duplication;
    (2) the criteria of chapter 35 of title 44 are met; and
    (3) standards of statistical reliability and national standardized definitions of employment, unemployment, and industrial and occupational definitions are used.
  (d) Annual measure of labor market related economic hardship; multilevel measure of cost of living; annual labor force and income report
    (1) The Secretary is authorized to develop data for an annual statistical measure of labor market related economic hardship in the Nation. Among the factors to be considered in developing such a measure are unemployment, labor force participation, involuntary part-time employment, and full-time employment at wages less than the poverty level.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to develop and maintain, on national, State, local, and other appropriate bases, household budget data at different levels of living, including a level of adequacy, to reflect the differences of household living costs in regions and localities, both urban and rural.
    (3) The Secretary shall publish, at least annually, a report relating labor force status to earnings and income.
  (e) Maintenance of permanent layoff and plant closing data
     The Secretary shall develop and maintain statistical data relating to permanent lay-offs and plant closings. The Secretary shall publish a report based upon such data, as soon as practicable, after the end of each calendar year. Among the data to be included are–
    (1) the number of such closings;
    (2) the number of workers displaced;
    (3) the location of the affected facilities; and
    (4) the types of industries involved.
  (f) Data on displaced farmers and ranchers; scope of data; reporting requirements
    (1) The Secretary shall develop, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, statistical data relating to permanent dislocation of farmers and ranchers due to farm and ranch failures. Among the data to be included are–
      (A) the number of such farm and ranch failures;
      (B) the number of farmers and ranchers displaced;
      (C) the location of the affected farms and ranches;
      (D) the types of farms and ranches involved; and
      (E) the identification of farm family members, including spouses, and farm workers working the equivalent of a full-time job on the farm who are dislocated by such farm and ranch failures.
    (2) The Secretary shall publish a report based upon such data as soon as practicable after the end of each calendar year. Such report shall include a comparison of data contained therein with data currently used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in determining the Nation“s annual employment and unemployment rates and an analysis of whether farmers and ranchers are being adequately counted in such employment statistics. Such report shall also include an analysis of alternative methods for reducing the adverse effects of displacements of farmers and ranchers, not only on the individual farmer or rancher, but on the surrounding community.
  (g) Nationwide database on quarterly earnings, industry affiliation, and geographic location of employment of individuals
    (1) Taking into consideration research previously conducted by the National Commission for Employment Policy and other entities, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, in cooperation with the States, shall determine appropriate procedures for establishing a nationwide database containing information on the quarterly earnings, establishment and industry affiliation, and geographic location of employment, for all individuals for whom such information is collected by the States.
    (2) The Commissioner of Labor Statistics shall determine appropriate procedures for maintaining such information in a longitudinal manner and for making such information available for policy research or program evaluation purposes or both, while ensuring the confidentiality of information and the privacy of individuals.
    (3) The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Congress, not later than 12 months after September 7, 1992, a report that shall describe the costs and benefits, including savings on program followup surveys, of a nationwide database containing the information described in paragraph (1) and a schedule that would allow for the establishment of such a database.
