  (a) Composition of membership
     There is established a National Commission for Employment Policy (hereinafter in this part referred to as the ””Commission““). The Commission shall be composed of 15 members, appointed by the President. The members of the Commission shall be individuals who are nationally prominent and the Commission shall be broadly representative of agriculture, business, labor, commerce, education (including elementary, secondary, postsecondary, and vocational and technical education), veterans, current State and local elected officials, community-based organizations, assistance programs, and members of the general public with expertise in human resource development or employment and training policy. The membership of the Commission shall be generally representative of significant segments of the labor force, including women and minority groups.
  (b) Term of office; unfinished terms; terms of initial members
     The term of office of each member of the Commission appointed by the President under subsection (a) of this section shall be three years, except that–
    (1) any such member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which his predecessor was appointed, and
    (2) of such members first taking office–
      (A) five shall serve for terms of one year;
      (B) five shall serve for terms of two years; and
      (C) five shall serve for terms of three years;
     as designated by the President at the time of appointment.
  (c) Selection of Chairman; frequency of meetings; quorum and voting
    (1) The Chairman shall be selected by the President.
    (2) The Commission shall meet not fewer than three times each year at the call of the Chairman.
    (3) A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may conduct hearings. Any recommendation may be passed only by a majority of the members present. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers but shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (d) Appointment of Director
     The Chairman (with the concurrence of the Commission) shall appoint a Director, who shall be chief executive officer of the Commission and shall perform such duties as are prescribed by the Chairman.
