  (a) In general
     Each State Council shall be composed as follows:
    (1) Each State Council shall include the head of each State agency responsible for the administration of an applicable Federal human resource program.
    (2)      (A) Each State Council shall include one or more representatives, appointed by the Governor to the State Council for a minimum of 2 years, from each of the following:
        (i) Local public education.
        (ii) A postsecondary institution.
        (iii) A secondary or postsecondary vocational educational institution.
        (iv) A community-based organization.
      (B) The total number of representatives appointed under clause \1\N (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall constitute not less than 15 percent of the membership of the State Council.
    (3)      (A) Each State Council shall include individuals, appointed by the Governor to the State Council for a minimum of 2 years, from among the following:
        (i) Representatives of business and industry, who shall constitute not less than 15 percent of the membership of the State Council, including individuals who are representatives of business and industry on private industry councils established within the State under section 1512 of this title.
        (ii) Representatives of organized labor who–
          (I) shall be selected from among individuals nominated by recognized State labor federations; and
          (II) shall constitute not less than 15 percent of the membership of the State Council.
      (B) If the State labor federation fails to nominate a sufficient number of individuals under subclause (I) of subparagraph (A)(ii) to satisfy the requirement under subclause (II) of such subparagraph, individual workers may be included on the State Council to satisfy such requirement.
  (b) Additional members
     Each State Council may also include additional qualified members, who may be selected from–
    (1) representatives from local welfare agencies;
    (2) representatives from public housing agencies;
    (3) representatives from units of general local government or consortia of such units, appointed from nominations made by the chief elected officials of such units or consortia;
    (4) representatives from the State legislature;
    (5) representatives from any State or local program that receives funding under an applicable Federal human resource program that the Governor determines to have a direct interest in the utilization of human resources within the State; and
    (6) individuals who have special knowledge and qualifications with respect to special education and career development needs of hard-to-serve individuals.
  (c) Additional requirements
    (1) Percentage limitation
       None of the following categories of individuals may constitute more than 60 percent of the membership of each State Council:
      (A) Individuals selected under subsection (a)(1) of this section.
      (B) Individuals appointed under subsection (a)(2) of this section.
      (C) Individuals appointed under subsection (a)(3)(A)(i) of this section.
      (D) Individuals appointed under subsection (a)(3)(A)(ii) of this section.
      (E) Individuals selected under subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) Expertise
       The Governor shall ensure that both the State Council and the staff of the State Council have sufficient expertise to effectively carry out the duties and functions of existing State councils described under the laws relating to the applicable Federal human resource programs. Such expertise shall include, where appropriate, knowledge of–
      (A) the long-term needs of individuals preparing to enter the workforce;
      (B) the needs of local, State, and regional labor markets; and
      (C) the methods for evaluating the effectiveness of vocational training programs in serving varying populations.
