  (a) System development project
    (1) In general
       In fiscal year 1995, the Secretary shall initiate a system development project, based on a plan developed in consultation and coordination with other appropriate Federal and State agencies, to develop a national classification system for assistive technology devices and assistive technology services, with the goal of obtaining uniform data through such a system on such devices and services across public programs and information and referral networks.
    (2) Project plan
      (A) Representatives
         In developing a plan for the system development project, the Secretary shall consult with, and coordinate activities with–
        (i) representatives of Federal agencies, including agencies that are headed by members of the Interagency Disability Coordinating Council established under section 507 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794c); and
        (ii) as determined by the Secretary, representatives of State agencies and other appropriate organizations that have responsibility for or are involved in the development and modification of assistive technology devices, the provision of assistive technology devices and assistive technology services, or the dissemination of information about assistive technology devices and assistive technology services, including recipients of grants or contracts for the provision of technical assistance to State assistive technology projects under section 2216(b) of this title, assistive technology reimbursement specialists, representatives of the State assistive technology projects, and representatives of organizations involved in information and referral activities.
      (B) Issues
         The Secretary shall conduct such consultation, and such coordination of activities, with respect to the following:
        (i) The costs and benefits, on an agency-by-agency basis, of obtaining uniform data through a national classification system for assistive technology devices and assistive technology services across public programs and information and referral networks.
        (ii) The types of data that should be collected, including data regarding funding, across a range of programs, including the programs listed in subsection (c)(2) of this section, as appropriate.
        (iii) A methodology for developing a single taxonomy and nomenclature for both assistive technology devices and assistive technology services across a range of programs, including the programs listed in subsection (c)(2) of this section, as appropriate.
        (iv) The process for developing an appropriate data collection instrument or instruments.
        (v) A methodology for collecting data across a range of programs, including the programs listed in subsection (c)(2) of this section, as appropriate.
        (vi) The use of a national classification system by the Internal Revenue Service and State finance agencies to determine whether devices and services are assistive technology devices or assistive technology services for the purpose of determining whether a deduction or credit is allowable under title 26 or State tax law.
    (3) Contracts and cooperative agreements
       The Secretary may carry out this section directly, or, if necessary, by entering into contracts or cooperative agreements with appropriate entities.
  (b) Single taxonomy
     In conducting the system development project, the Secretary shall develop a national classification system that includes a single taxonomy and nomenclature for assistive technology devices and assistive technology services.
  (c) Data collection instrument
     In conducting the system development project, the Secretary shall develop a data collection instrument to–
    (1) collect data regarding funding for assistive technology devices and assistive technology services; and
    (2) collect such data from public programs, including, at a minimum–
      (A) programs carried out under title I, VI, or VII of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq., 795 et seq., or 796 et seq.);
      (B) programs carried out under part B or H of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1411 et seq. or 1471 et seq.);
      (C) programs carried out under title V or XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 701 et seq. or 1396 et seq.);
      (D) programs carried out under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.); and
      (E) programs carried out under the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6000 et seq.).
  (d) Consultation
     The Secretary shall conduct the system development project in consultation with the Federal agencies that were consulted in developing the project plan.
  (e) Report to President and Congress on implementation of uniform data collection system
     Not later than July 1, 1997, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the President and the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing–
    (1) the results of the system development project; and
    (2) the recommendations of the Secretary concerning implementation of a national classification system, including uniform data collection.
  (f) Reservation
     From the amounts appropriated under part C of this subchapter for fiscal year 1995, the Secretary shall reserve up to $200,000 to carry out this part.
