  (a) Audit
    (1) Each State shall establish such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure the proper disbursal of, and accounting for, Federal funds paid to the recipient under this chapter. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Comptroller General of the United States, shall establish guidance for the proper performance of audits. Such guidance shall include a review of fiscal controls and fund accounting procedures established by States under this section.
    (2) At least once every two years, the State shall prepare or have prepared an independent financial and compliance audit of funds received under this chapter.
    (3) Each audit shall be conducted in accordance with applicable auditing standards set forth in the financial and compliance element of the Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.
  (b) Evaluations by Comptroller General
    (1) The Comptroller General of the United States shall evaluate the expenditures by States of funds received under this chapter in order to assure that expenditures are consistent with the provisions of this chapter and to determine the effectiveness of the State in accomplishing the purposes of this chapter. The Comptroller General shall conduct evaluations whenever determined necessary and shall periodically report to the Congress on the findings of such evaluations.
    (2) Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to relieve the Inspector General of the Department of Labor of his responsibilities under the Inspector General Act.
    (3) For the purpose of evaluating and reviewing programs established or provided for by this chapter, the Comptroller General shall have access to and the right to copy any books, accounts, records, correspondence, or other documents pertinent to such programs that are in the possession, custody, or control of the State.
  (c) Repayment of funds by State
     Each State shall repay to the United States amounts found not to have been expended in accordance with this chapter. No such finding shall be made except after notice and opportunity for a fair hearing. The Secretary may offset such amounts against any other amount to which the recipient is or may be entitled under this chapter.
