  (a) Multiple and interrelated service needs of individuals with handicaps; report to Congress
     The Secretary of Education is authorized to make grants to, and to enter into contract with, public and nonprofit agencies and organizations for the purpose of research and demonstration projects specifically designed to address the multiple and interrelated service needs of individuals with handicaps, the elderly, and children, youths, adults, and families. A report evaluating each project funded under this section shall be submitted to appropriate committees of the Congress within four months after the date each such project is completed.
  (b) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary.
     No funds other than those appropriated pursuant to this subsection can be used for the conduct of research specifically authorized by this section.
  (c) Study on impact of vocational rehabilitation services; transmittal to Congress
     Within one year after the date appropriations are made under subsection (b) of this section for purposes of research and demonstration projects under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall prepare and transmit to the Congress a study concerning the impact of vocational rehabilitation services provided under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.] on recipients of disability payments under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq., 1381 et seq.]. The study shall examine the relationship between the vocational rehabilitation services provided under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the programs under sections 222 and 1615 of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 422, 1382d], and shall include–
    (1) an analysis of the savings in disability benefit payments under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act as a result of the provision of vocational rehabilitation services under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973;
    (2) a specification of the rate of return to the active labor force by recipients of services under sections 222 and 1615 of the Social Security Act;
    (3) a specification of the total amount of expenditures, in the five fiscal years preceding the date of submission of the report, for vocational rehabilitation services under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and under sections 222 and 1615 of the Social Security Act, and recommendations for the coordinated presentation of such expenditures in the Budget submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105 of title 31; and
    (4) recommendations to improve the coordination of services under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 with programs under sections 222 and 1615 of the Social Security Act, including recommendations for increasing savings in disability benefits payments and the rate of return to the active labor force by recipients of services under sections 222 and 1615 of the Social Security Act.
