  (a) Mine office; bulletin board
     At each coal or other mine there shall be maintained an office with a conspicuous sign designating it as the office of such mine. There shall be a bulletin board at such office or located at a conspicuous place near an entrance of such mine, in such manner that orders, citations, notices and decisions required by law or regulation to be posted, may be posted thereon, and be easily visible to all persons desiring to read them, and be protected against damage by weather and against unauthorized removal. A copy of any order, citation, notice or decision required by this chapter to be given to an operator shall be delivered to the office of the affected mine, and a copy shall be immediately posted on the bulletin board of such mine by the operator or his agent.
  (b) Distribution of orders, citations, notices, and decisions
     The Secretary shall (1) cause a copy of any order, citation, notice, or decision required by this chapter to be given to an operator to be mailed immediately to a representative of the miners in the affected coal or other mine, and (2) cause a copy thereof to be mailed to the public official or agency of the State charged with administering State laws, if any, relating to health or safety in such mine. Such notice, order, citation, or decision shall be available for public inspection.
  (c) Compliance
     In order to insure prompt compliance with any notice, order, citation, or decision issued under this chapter, the authorized representative of the Secretary may deliver such notice, order, citation, or decision to an agent of the operator, and such agent shall immediately take appropriate measures to insure compliance with such notice, order, citation, or decision.
  (d) Filing; designation of health and safety officers
     Each operator of a coal or other mine subject to this chapter shall file with the Secretary the name and address of such mine and the name and address of the person who controls or operates the mine. Any revisions in such names or addresses shall be promptly filed with the Secretary. Each operator of a coal or other mine subject to this chapter shall designate a responsible official at such mine as the principal officer in charge of health and safety at such mine, and such official shall receive a copy of any notice, order, citation, or decision issued under this chapter affecting such mine. In any case where the mine is subject to the control of any person not directly involved in the daily operations of the coal or other mine, there shall be filed with the Secretary the name and address of such person and the name and address of a principal official of such person who shall have overall responsibility for the conduct of an effective health and safety program at any coal or other mine subject to the control of such person, and such official shall receive a copy of any notice, order, citation, or decision issued affecting any such mine. The mere designation of a health and safety official under this subsection shall not be construed as making such official subject to any penalty under this chapter.
