  (a) Deputy Secretary; Under Secretaries
     There are the following officers, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate:
    (1) A Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, who shall be the Secretary“s first assistant for purposes of subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5.
    (2) An Under Secretary for Science and Technology.
    (3) An Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security.
    (4) An Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
    (5) A Director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.
    (6) An Under Secretary for Management.
    (7) A Director of the Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement.
    (8) An Under Secretary responsible for overseeing critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity, and other related programs of the Department.
    (9) Not more than 12 Assistant Secretaries.
    (10) A General Counsel, who shall be the chief legal officer of the Department.
  (b) Inspector General
     There shall be in the Department an Office of Inspector General and an Inspector General at the head of such office, as provided in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
  (c) Commandant of the Coast Guard
     To assist the Secretary in the performance of the Secretary“s functions, there is a Commandant of the Coast Guard, who shall be appointed as provided in section 44 of title 14 and who shall report directly to the Secretary. In addition to such duties as may be provided in this chapter and as assigned to the Commandant by the Secretary, the duties of the Commandant shall include those required by section 2 of title 14.
  (d) Other officers
     To assist the Secretary in the performance of the Secretary“s functions, there are the following officers, appointed by the President:
    (1) A Director of the Secret Service.
    (2) A Chief Information Officer.
    (3) A Chief Human Capital Officer.
    (4) An Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.
    (5) A Director for Domestic Nuclear Detection.
  (e) Chief Financial Officer
     There shall be in the Department a Chief Financial Officer, as provided in chapter 9 of title 31.
  (f) Performance of specific functions
     Subject to the provisions of this chapter, every officer of the Department shall perform the functions specified by law for the official“s office or prescribed by the Secretary.
