   In this subchapter, the following definitions apply:
  (1) Appropriate congressional committees
     The term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
  (2) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
  (3) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the Department of Homeland Security.
  (4) Over-the-road bus
     The term ””over-the-road bus““ means a bus characterized by an elevated passenger deck located over a baggage compartment.
  (5) Over-the-road bus frontline employees
     In this section,\1\N the term ””over-the-road bus frontline employees““ means over-the-road bus drivers, security personnel, dispatchers, maintenance and maintenance support personnel, ticket agents, other terminal employees, and other employees of an over-the-road bus operator or terminal owner or operator that the Secretary determines should receive security training under this subchapter.
  (6) Railroad frontline employees
     In this section,\1\ the term ””railroad frontline employees““ means security personnel, dispatchers, locomotive engineers, conductors, trainmen, other onboard employees, maintenance and maintenance support personnel, bridge tenders, and any other employees of railroad carriers that the Secretary determines should receive security training under this subchapter.
  (7) Railroad
     The term ””railroad““ has the meaning that term has in section 20102 of title 49.
  (8) Railroad carrier
     The term ””railroad carrier““ has the meaning that term has in section 20102 of title 49.
  (9) State
     The term ””State““ means any one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (10) Terrorism
     The term ””terrorism““ has the meaning that term has in section 101 of this title.
  (11) Transportation
     The term ””transportation““, as used with respect to an over-the-road bus, means the movement of passengers or property by an over-the-road bus–
    (A) in the jurisdiction of the United States between a place in a State and a place outside the State (including a place outside the United States); or
    (B) in a State that affects trade, traffic, and transportation described in subparagraph (A).
  (12) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (13) Security-sensitive material
     The term ””security-sensitive material““ means a material, or a group or class of material, in a particular amount and form that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, determines, through a rulemaking with opportunity for public comment, poses a significant risk to national security while being transported in commerce due to the potential use of the material in an act of terrorism. In making such a designation, the Secretary shall, at a minimum, consider the following:
    (A) Class 7 radioactive materials.
    (B) Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 explosives.
    (C) Materials poisonous or toxic by inhalation, including Division 2.3 gases and Division 6.1 materials.
    (D) A select agent or toxin regulated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention under part 73 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations.
  (14) Disadvantaged business concerns
     The term ””disadvantaged business concerns““ means small businesses that are owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals as defined in section 124,\2\N of title 13, Code of Federal Regulations.
  (15) Amtrak
     The term ””Amtrak““ means the National Railroad Passenger Corporation.
