  (a) In general
     Not later than 6 months after August 3, 2007, the Secretary shall develop and issue regulations for a training program to prepare railroad frontline employees for potential security threats and conditions. The regulations shall take into consideration any current security training requirements or best practices.
  (b) Consultation
     The Secretary shall develop the regulations under subsection (a) in consultation with–
    (1) appropriate law enforcement, fire service, emergency response, security, and terrorism experts;
    (2) railroad carriers;
    (3) railroad shippers; and
    (4) nonprofit employee labor organizations representing railroad employees or emergency response personnel.
  (c) Program elements
     The regulations developed under subsection (a) shall require security training programs described in subsection (a) to include, at a minimum, elements to address the following, as applicable:
    (1) Determination of the seriousness of any occurrence or threat.
    (2) Crew and passenger communication and coordination.
    (3) Appropriate responses to defend or protect oneself.
    (4) Use of personal and other protective equipment.
    (5) Evacuation procedures for passengers and railroad employees, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly.
    (6) Psychology, behavior, and methods of terrorists, including observation and analysis.
    (7) Training related to psychological responses to terrorist incidents, including the ability to cope with hijacker behavior and passenger responses.
    (8) Live situational training exercises regarding various threat conditions, including tunnel evacuation procedures.
    (9) Recognition and reporting of dangerous substances, suspicious packages, and situations.
    (10) Understanding security incident procedures, including procedures for communicating with governmental and nongovernmental emergency response providers and for on-scene interaction with such emergency response providers.
    (11) Operation and maintenance of security equipment and systems.
    (12) Other security training activities that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (d) Required programs
    (1) Development and submission to Secretary
       Not later than 90 days after the Secretary issues regulations under subsection (a), each railroad carrier shall develop a security training program in accordance with this section and submit the program to the Secretary for approval.
    (2) Approval or disapproval
       Not later than 60 days after receiving a security training program proposal under this subsection, the Secretary shall approve the program or require the railroad carrier that developed the program to make any revisions to the program that the Secretary considers necessary for the program to meet the requirements of this section. A railroad carrier shall respond to the Secretary“s comments within 30 days after receiving them.
    (3) Training
       Not later than 1 year after the Secretary approves a security training program in accordance with this subsection, the railroad carrier that developed the program shall complete the training of all railroad frontline employees who were hired by a carrier more than 30 days preceding such date. For such employees employed less than 30 days by a carrier preceding such date, training shall be completed within the first 60 days of employment.
    (4) Updates of regulations and program revisions
       The Secretary shall periodically review and update as appropriate the training regulations issued under subsection (a) to reflect new or changing security threats. Each railroad carrier shall revise its training program accordingly and provide additional training as necessary to its frontline employees within a reasonable time after the regulations are updated.
  (e) National Training Program
     The Secretary shall ensure that the training program developed under subsection (a) is a component of the National Training Program established under section 748 of this title.
  (f) Reporting requirements
     Not later than 2 years after the date of regulation issuance, the Secretary shall review implementation of the training program of a representative sample of railroad carriers and railroad frontline employees, and report to the appropriate congressional committees on the number of reviews conducted and the results of such reviews. The Secretary may submit the report in both classified and redacted formats as necessary.
  (g) Other employees
     The Secretary shall issue guidance and best practices for a railroad shipper employee security program containing the elements listed under subsection (c).
