  (a) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Fund
       The term ””Fund““ means the Acceleration Fund for Research and Development of Homeland Security Technologies established in subsection (c) of this section.
    (2) Homeland security research
       The term ””homeland security research““ means research relevant to the detection of, prevention of, protection against, response to, attribution of, and recovery from homeland security threats, particularly acts of terrorism.
    (3) HSARPA
       The term ””HSARPA““ means the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency established in subsection (b) of this section.
    (4) Under Secretary
       The term ””Under Secretary““ means the Under Secretary for Science and Technology.
  (b) Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency
    (1) Establishment
       There is established the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency.
    (2) Director
       HSARPA shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary. The Director shall report to the Under Secretary.
    (3) Responsibilities
       The Director shall administer the Fund to award competitive, merit-reviewed grants, cooperative agreements or contracts to public or private entities, including businesses, federally funded research and development centers, and universities. The Director shall administer the Fund to–
      (A) support basic and applied homeland security research to promote revolutionary changes in technologies that would promote homeland security;
      (B) advance the development, testing and evaluation, and deployment of critical homeland security technologies; and
      (C) accelerate the prototyping and deployment of technologies that would address homeland security vulnerabilities.
    (4) Targeted competitions
       The Director may solicit proposals to address specific vulnerabilities identified by the Director.
    (5) Coordination
       The Director shall ensure that the activities of HSARPA are coordinated with those of other relevant research agencies, and may run projects jointly with other agencies.
    (6) Personnel
       In hiring personnel for HSARPA, the Secretary shall have the hiring and management authorities described in section 1101 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (5 U.S.C. 3104 note; Public Law 105–261). The term of appointments for employees under subsection (c)(1) of that section may not exceed 5 years before the granting of any extension under subsection (c)(2) of that section.
    (7) Demonstrations
       The Director, periodically, shall hold homeland security technology demonstrations to improve contact among technology developers, vendors and acquisition personnel.
  (c) Fund
    (1) Establishment
       There is established the Acceleration Fund for Research and Development of Homeland Security Technologies, which shall be administered by the Director of HSARPA.
    (2) Authorization of appropriations
       There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000,000 to the Fund for fiscal year 2003 and such sums as may be necessary thereafter.
    (3) Coast Guard
       Of the funds authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (2), not less than 10 percent of such funds for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2005 shall be authorized only for the Under Secretary, through joint agreement with the Commandant of the Coast Guard, to carry out research and development of improved ports, waterways and coastal security surveillance and perimeter protection capabilities for the purpose of minimizing the possibility that Coast Guard cutters, aircraft, helicopters, and personnel will be diverted from non-homeland security missions to the ports, waterways and coastal security mission.
