  (a) Transfer of agricultural import and entry inspection functions
     There shall be transferred to the Secretary the functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under the laws specified in subsection (b) of this section.
  (b) Covered animal and plant protection laws
     The laws referred to in subsection (a) of this section are the following:
    (1) The Act commonly known as the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (the eighth paragraph under the heading ””Bureau of Animal Industry““ in the Act of March 4, 1913; 21 U.S.C. 151 et seq.).
    (2) Section 1 of the Act of August 31, 1922 (commonly known as the Honeybee Act; 7 U.S.C. 281).
    (3) Title III of the Federal Seed Act (7 U.S.C. 1581 et seq.).
    (4) The Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.).
    (5) The Animal Health Protection Act (subtitle E of title X of Public Law 107–171; 7 U.S.C. 8301 et seq.).
    (6) The Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq.).
    (7) Section 11 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1540).
  (c) Exclusion of quarantine activities
     For purposes of this section, the term ””functions““ does not include any quarantine activities carried out under the laws specified in subsection (b) of this section.
  (d) Effect of transfer
    (1) Compliance with Department of Agriculture regulations
       The authority transferred pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be exercised by the Secretary in accordance with the regulations, policies, and procedures issued by the Secretary of Agriculture regarding the administration of the laws specified in subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) Rulemaking coordination
       The Secretary of Agriculture shall coordinate with the Secretary whenever the Secretary of Agriculture prescribes regulations, policies, or procedures for administering the functions transferred under subsection (a) of this section under a law specified in subsection (b) of this section.
    (3) Effective administration
       The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, may issue such directives and guidelines as are necessary to ensure the effective use of personnel of the Department of Homeland Security to carry out the functions transferred pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
  (e) Transfer agreement
    (1) Agreement required; revision
       Before the end of the transition period, as defined in section 541 of this title, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary shall enter into an agreement to effectuate the transfer of functions required by subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary may jointly revise the agreement as necessary thereafter.
    (2) Required terms
       The agreement required by this subsection shall specifically address the following:
      (A) The supervision by the Secretary of Agriculture of the training of employees of the Secretary to carry out the functions transferred pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
      (B) The transfer of funds to the Secretary under subsection (f) of this section.
    (3) Cooperation and reciprocity
       The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary may include as part of the agreement the following:
      (A) Authority for the Secretary to perform functions delegated to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department of Agriculture regarding the protection of domestic livestock and plants, but not transferred to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
      (B) Authority for the Secretary of Agriculture to use employees of the Department of Homeland Security to carry out authorities delegated to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service regarding the protection of domestic livestock and plants.
  (f) Periodic transfer of funds to Department of Homeland Security
    (1) Transfer of funds
       Out of funds collected by fees authorized under sections 136 and 136a of title 21, the Secretary of Agriculture shall transfer, from time to time in accordance with the agreement under subsection (e) of this section, to the Secretary funds for activities carried out by the Secretary for which such fees were collected.
    (2) Limitation
       The proportion of fees collected pursuant to such sections that are transferred to the Secretary under this subsection may not exceed the proportion of the costs incurred by the Secretary to all costs incurred to carry out activities funded by such fees.
  (g) Transfer of Department of Agriculture employees
     Not later than the completion of the transition period defined under section 541 of this title, the Secretary of Agriculture shall transfer to the Secretary not more than 3,200 full-time equivalent positions of the Department of Agriculture.
