  (a) Annual report
    (1) In general
       One year after November 25, 2002, and each year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit a report to the President, to the Committees on the Judiciary and Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and to the Committees on the Judiciary and Government Affairs of the Senate, on the impact the transfers made by this part has had on immigration functions.
    (2) Matter included
       The report shall address the following with respect to the period covered by the report:
      (A) The aggregate number of all immigration applications and petitions received, and processed, by the Department.
      (B) Region-by-region statistics on the aggregate number of immigration applications and petitions filed by an alien (or filed on behalf of an alien) and denied, disaggregated by category of denial and application or petition type.
      (C) The quantity of backlogged immigration applications and petitions that have been processed, the aggregate number awaiting processing, and a detailed plan for eliminating the backlog.
      (D) The average processing period for immigration applications and petitions, disaggregated by application or petition type.
      (E) The number and types of immigration-related grievances filed with any official of the Department of Justice, and if those grievances were resolved.
      (F) Plans to address grievances and improve immigration services.
      (G) Whether immigration-related fees were used consistent with legal requirements regarding such use.
      (H) Whether immigration-related questions conveyed by customers to the Department (whether conveyed in person, by telephone, or by means of the Internet) were answered effectively and efficiently.
  (b) Sense of Congress regarding immigration services
     It is the sense of Congress that–
    (1) the quality and efficiency of immigration services rendered by the Federal Government should be improved after the transfers made by this part take effect; and
    (2) the Secretary should undertake efforts to guarantee that concerns regarding the quality and efficiency of immigration services are addressed after such effective date.
