   For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
  (1) Qualified anti-terrorism technology
     For purposes of this part, the term ””qualified anti-terrorism technology““ means any product, equipment, service (including support services), device, or technology (including information technology) designed, developed, modified, or procured for the specific purpose of preventing, detecting, identifying, or deterring acts of terrorism or limiting the harm such acts might otherwise cause, that is designated as such by the Secretary.
  (2) Act of terrorism
    (A) The term ””act of terrorism““ means any act that the Secretary determines meets the requirements under subparagraph (B), as such requirements are further defined and specified by the Secretary.
    (B) T4RequirementsK.–An act meets the requirements of this subparagraph if the act–
      (i) is unlawful;
      (ii) causes harm to a person, property, or entity, in the United States, or in the case of a domestic United States air carrier or a United States-flag vessel (or a vessel based principally in the United States on which United States income tax is paid and whose insurance coverage is subject to regulation in the United States), in or outside the United States; and
      (iii) uses or attempts to use instrumentalities, weapons or other methods designed or intended to cause mass destruction, injury or other loss to citizens or institutions of the United States.
  (3) Insurance carrier
     The term ””insurance carrier““ means any corporation, association, society, order, firm, company, mutual, partnership, individual aggregation of individuals, or any other legal entity that provides commercial property and casualty insurance. Such term includes any affiliates of a commercial insurance carrier.
  (4) Liability insurance
    (A) \1\N In general
       The term ””liability insurance““ means insurance for legal liabilities incurred by the insured resulting from–
      (i) loss of or damage to property of others;
      (ii) ensuing loss of income or extra expense incurred because of loss of or damage to property of others;
      (iii) bodily injury (including) to persons other than the insured or its employees; or
      (iv) loss resulting from debt or default of another.
  (5) Loss
     The term ””loss““ means death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property, including business interruption loss.
  (6) Non-Federal Government customers
     The term ””non-Federal Government customers““ means any customer of a Seller that is not an agency or instrumentality of the United States Government with authority under Public Law 85–804 [50 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.] to provide for indemnification under certain circumstances for third-party claims against its contractors, including but not limited to State and local authorities and commercial entities.
