  (a) In general
     The Secretary shall regulate the sale and transfer of ammonium nitrate by an ammonium nitrate facility in accordance with this part to prevent the misappropriation or use of ammonium nitrate in an act of terrorism.
  (b) Ammonium nitrate mixtures
     Not later than 90 days after December 26, 2007, the Secretary, in consultation with the heads of appropriate Federal departments and agencies (including the Secretary of Agriculture), shall, after notice and an opportunity for comment, establish a threshold percentage for ammonium nitrate in a substance.
  (c) Registration of owners of ammonium nitrate facilities
    (1) Registration
       The Secretary shall establish a process by which any person that–
      (A) owns an ammonium nitrate facility is required to register with the Department; and
      (B) registers under subparagraph (A) is issued a registration number for purposes of this part.
    (2) Registration information
       Any person applying to register under paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary–
      (A) the name, address, and telephone number of each ammonium nitrate facility owned by that person;
      (B) the name of the person designated by that person as the point of contact for each such facility, for purposes of this part; and
      (C) such other information as the Secretary may determine is appropriate.
  (d) Registration of ammonium nitrate purchasers
    (1) Registration
       The Secretary shall establish a process by which any person that–
      (A) intends to be an ammonium nitrate purchaser is required to register with the Department; and
      (B) registers under subparagraph (A) is issued a registration number for purposes of this part.
    (2) Registration information
       Any person applying to register under paragraph (1) as an ammonium nitrate purchaser shall submit to the Secretary–
      (A) the name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; and
      (B) the intended use of ammonium nitrate to be purchased by the applicant.
  (e) Records
    (1) Maintenance of records
       The owner of an ammonium nitrate facility shall–
      (A) maintain a record of each sale or transfer of ammonium nitrate, during the two-year period beginning on the date of that sale or transfer; and
      (B) include in such record the information described in paragraph (2).
    (2) Specific information required
       For each sale or transfer of ammonium nitrate, the owner of an ammonium nitrate facility shall–
      (A) record the name, address, telephone number, and registration number issued under subsection (c) or (d) of each person that purchases ammonium nitrate, in a manner prescribed by the Secretary;
      (B) if applicable, record the name, address, and telephone number of an agent acting on behalf of the person described in subparagraph (A), at the point of sale;
      (C) record the date and quantity of ammonium nitrate sold or transferred; and
      (D) verify the identity of the persons described in subparagraphs (A) and (B), as applicable, in accordance with a procedure established by the Secretary.
    (3) Protection of information
       In maintaining records in accordance with paragraph (1), the owner of an ammonium nitrate facility shall take reasonable actions to ensure the protection of the information included in such records.
  (f) Exemption for explosive purposes
     The Secretary may exempt from this part a person producing, selling, or purchasing ammonium nitrate exclusively for use in the production of an explosive under a license or permit issued under chapter 40 of title 18.
  (g) Consultation
     In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Agriculture, States, and appropriate private sector entities, to ensure that the access of agricultural producers to ammonium nitrate is not unduly burdened.
  (h) Data confidentiality
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding section 552 of title 5 or the USA PATRIOT ACT (Public Law 107–56; 115 Stat. 272), and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may not disclose to any person any information obtained under this part.
    (2) Exception
       The Secretary may disclose any information obtained by the Secretary under this part to–
      (A) an officer or employee of the United States, or a person that has entered into a contract with the United States, who has a need to know the information to perform the duties of the officer, employee, or person; or
      (B) to a State agency under section 488c of this title, under appropriate arrangements to ensure the protection of the information.
        (i) Registration procedures and check of terrorist screening database
          (1) Registration procedures
            (A) Generally
               The Secretary shall establish procedures to efficiently receive applications for registration numbers under this part, conduct the checks required under paragraph (2), and promptly issue or deny a registration number.
            (B) Initial six-month registration period
               The Secretary shall take steps to maximize the number of registration applications that are submitted and processed during the six-month period described in section 488e(e) of this title.
          (2) Check of terrorist screening database
            (A) Check required
               The Secretary shall conduct a check of appropriate identifying information of any person seeking to register with the Department under subsection (c) or (d) against identifying information that appears in the terrorist screening database of the Department.
            (B) Authority to deny registration number
               If the identifying information of a person seeking to register with the Department under subsection (c) or (d) appears in the terrorist screening database of the Department, the Secretary may deny issuance of a registration number under this part.
          (3) Expedited review of applications
            (A) In general
               Following the six-month period described in section 488e(e) of this title, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, issue or deny registration numbers under this part not later than 72 hours after the time the Secretary receives a complete registration application, unless the Secretary determines, in the interest of national security, that additional time is necessary to review an application.
            (B) Notice of application status
               In all cases, the Secretary shall notify a person seeking to register with the Department under subsection (c) or (d) of the status of the application of that person not later than 72 hours after the time the Secretary receives a complete registration application.
          (4) Expedited appeals process
            (A) Requirement
              (i) Appeals process
                 The Secretary shall establish an expedited appeals process for persons denied a registration number under this part.
              (ii) Time period for resolution
                 The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, resolve appeals not later than 72 hours after receiving a complete request for appeal unless the Secretary determines, in the interest of national security, that additional time is necessary to resolve an appeal.
            (B) Consultation
               The Secretary, in developing the appeals process under subparagraph (A), shall consult with appropriate stakeholders.
            (C) Guidance
               The Secretary shall provide guidance regarding the procedures and information required for an appeal under subparagraph (A) to any person denied a registration number under this part.
          (5) Restrictions on use and maintenance of information
            (A) In general
               Any information constituting grounds for denial of a registration number under this section shall be maintained confidentially by the Secretary and may be used only for making determinations under this section.
            (B) Sharing of information
               Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Secretary may share any such information with Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies, as appropriate.
          (6) Registration information
            (A) Authority to require information
               The Secretary may require a person applying for a registration number under this part to submit such information as may be necessary to carry out the requirements of this section.
            (B) Requirement to update information
               The Secretary may require persons issued a registration under this part to update registration information submitted to the Secretary under this part, as appropriate.
          (7) Re-checks against terrorist screening database
            (A) Re-checks
               The Secretary shall, as appropriate, recheck persons provided a registration number pursuant to this part against the terrorist screening database of the Department, and may revoke such registration number if the Secretary determines such person may pose a threat to national security.
            (B) Notice of revocation
               The Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide prior notice to a person whose registration number is revoked under this section and such person shall have an opportunity to appeal, as provided in paragraph (4).
