  (a) Establishment
    (1) In general
       There is established within the Department of Justice under the general authority of the Attorney General the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (in this section referred to as the ””Bureau““).
    (2) Director
       There shall be at the head of the Bureau a Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (in this part referred to as the ””Director““). The Director shall be appointed by the Attorney General and shall perform such functions as the Attorney General shall direct. The Director shall receive compensation at the rate prescribed by law under section 5314 of title V \1\N for positions at level III of the Executive Schedule.
    (3) Coordination
       The Attorney General, acting through the Director and such other officials of the Department of Justice as the Attorney General may designate, shall provide for the coordination of all firearms, explosives, tobacco enforcement, and arson enforcement functions vested in the Attorney General so as to assure maximum cooperation between and among any officer, employee, or agency of the Department of Justice involved in the performance of these and related functions.
    (4) Performance of transferred functions
       The Attorney General may make such provisions as the Attorney General determines appropriate to authorize the performance by any officer, employee, or agency of the Department of Justice of any function transferred to the Attorney General under this section.
  (b) Responsibilities
     Subject to the direction of the Attorney General, the Bureau shall be responsible for investigating–
    (1) criminal and regulatory violations of the Federal firearms, explosives, arson, alcohol, and tobacco smuggling laws;
    (2) the functions transferred by subsection (c) of this section; and
    (3) any other function related to the investigation of violent crime or domestic terrorism that is delegated to the Bureau by the Attorney General.
  (c) Transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets to the Department of Justice
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2), but notwithstanding any other provision of law, there are transferred to the Department of Justice the authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, which shall be maintained as a distinct entity within the Department of Justice, including the related functions of the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (2) Administration and revenue collection functions
       There shall be retained within the Department of the Treasury the authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms relating to the administration and enforcement of chapters 51 and 52 of title 26, sections 4181 and 4182 of title 26, and title 27.
    (3) Building prospectus
       Prospectus PDC-98W10, giving the General Services Administration the authority for site acquisition, design, and construction of a new headquarters building for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, is transferred, and deemed to apply, to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives established in the Department of Justice under subsection (a) of this section.
  (d) Tax and Trade Bureau
    (1) Establishment
       There is established within the Department of the Treasury the Tax and Trade Bureau.
    (2) Administrator
       The Tax and Trade Bureau shall be headed by an Administrator, who shall perform such duties as assigned by the Under Secretary for Enforcement of the Department of the Treasury. The Administrator shall occupy a career-reserved position within the Senior Executive Service.
    (3) Responsibilities
       The authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms that are not transferred to the Department of Justice under this section shall be retained and administered by the Tax and Trade Bureau.
