  (a) Establishment
     There is established an Urban Area Security Initiative to provide grants to assist high-risk urban areas in preventing, preparing for, protecting against, and responding to acts of terrorism.
  (b) Assessment and designation of high-risk urban areas
    (1) In general
       The Administrator shall designate high-risk urban areas to receive grants under this section based on procedures under this subsection.
    (2) Initial assessment
      (A) In general
         For each fiscal year, the Administrator shall conduct an initial assessment of the relative threat, vulnerability, and consequences from acts of terrorism faced by each eligible metropolitan area, including consideration of–
        (i) the factors set forth in subparagraphs (A) through (H) and (K) of section 608(a)(1) of this title; and
        (ii) information and materials submitted under subparagraph (B).
      (B) Submission of information by eligible metropolitan areas
         Prior to conducting each initial assessment under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall provide each eligible metropolitan area with, and shall notify each eligible metropolitan area of, the opportunity to–
        (i) submit information that the eligible metropolitan area believes to be relevant to the determination of the threat, vulnerability, and consequences it faces from acts of terrorism; and
        (ii) review the risk assessment conducted by the Department of that eligible metropolitan area, including the bases for the assessment by the Department of the threat, vulnerability, and consequences from acts of terrorism faced by that eligible metropolitan area, and remedy erroneous or incomplete information.
    (3) Designation of high-risk urban areas
      (A) Designation
        (i) In general
           For each fiscal year, after conducting the initial assessment under paragraph (2), and based on that assessment, the Administrator shall designate high-risk urban areas that may submit applications for grants under this section.
        (ii) Additional areas
           Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Administrator may–
          (I) in any case where an eligible metropolitan area consists of more than 1 metropolitan division (as that term is defined by the Office of Management and Budget) designate more than 1 high-risk urban area within a single eligible metropolitan area; and
          (II) designate an area that is not an eligible metropolitan area as a high-risk urban area based on the assessment by the Administrator of the relative threat, vulnerability, and consequences from acts of terrorism faced by the area.
        (iii) Rule of construction
           Nothing in this subsection may be construed to require the Administrator to–
          (I) designate all eligible metropolitan areas that submit information to the Administrator under paragraph (2)(B)(i) as high-risk urban areas; or
          (II) designate all areas within an eligible metropolitan area as part of the high-risk urban area.
      (B) Jurisdictions included in high-risk urban areas
        (i) In general
           In designating high-risk urban areas under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall determine which jurisdictions, at a minimum, shall be included in each high-risk urban area.
        (ii) Additional jurisdictions
           A high-risk urban area designated by the Administrator may, in consultation with the State or States in which such high-risk urban area is located, add additional jurisdictions to the high-risk urban area.
  (c) Application
    (1) In general
       An area designated as a high-risk urban area under subsection (b) may apply for a grant under this section.
    (2) Minimum contents of application
       In an application for a grant under this section, a high-risk urban area shall submit–
      (A) a plan describing the proposed division of responsibilities and distribution of funding among the local and tribal governments in the high-risk urban area;
      (B) the name of an individual to serve as a high-risk urban area liaison with the Department and among the various jurisdictions in the high-risk urban area; and
      (C) such information in support of the application as the Administrator may reasonably require.
    (3) Annual applications
       Applicants for grants under this section shall apply or reapply on an annual basis.
    (4) State review and transmission
      (A) In general
         To ensure consistency with State homeland security plans, a high-risk urban area applying for a grant under this section shall submit its application to each State within which any part of that high-risk urban area is located for review before submission of such application to the Department.
      (B) Deadline
         Not later than 30 days after receiving an application from a high-risk urban area under subparagraph (A), a State shall transmit the application to the Department.
      (C) Opportunity for State comment
         If the Governor of a State determines that an application of a high-risk urban area is inconsistent with the State homeland security plan of that State, or otherwise does not support the application, the Governor shall–
        (i) notify the Administrator, in writing, of that fact; and
        (ii) provide an explanation of the reason for not supporting the application at the time of transmission of the application.
    (5) Opportunity to amend
       In considering applications for grants under this section, the Administrator shall provide applicants with a reasonable opportunity to correct defects in the application, if any, before making final awards.
  (d) Distribution of awards
    (1) In general
       If the Administrator approves the application of a high-risk urban area for a grant under this section, the Administrator shall distribute the grant funds to the State or States in which that high-risk urban area is located.
    (2) State distribution of funds
      (A) In general
         Not later than 45 days after the date that a State receives grant funds under paragraph (1), that State shall provide the high-risk urban area awarded that grant not less than 80 percent of the grant funds. Any funds retained by a State shall be expended on items, services, or activities that benefit the high-risk urban area.
      (B) Funds retained
         A State shall provide each relevant high-risk urban area with an accounting of the items, services, or activities on which any funds retained by the State under subparagraph (A) were expended.
    (3) Interstate urban areas
       If parts of a high-risk urban area awarded a grant under this section are located in 2 or more States, the Administrator shall distribute to each such State–
      (A) a portion of the grant funds in accordance with the proposed distribution set forth in the application; or
      (B) if no agreement on distribution has been reached, a portion of the grant funds determined by the Administrator to be appropriate.
    (4) Certifications regarding distribution of grant funds to high-risk urban areas
       A State that receives grant funds under paragraph (1) shall certify to the Administrator that the State has made available to the applicable high-risk urban area the required funds under paragraph (2).
  (e) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated for grants under this section–
    (1) $850,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
    (2) $950,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
    (3) $1,050,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
    (4) $1,150,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
    (5) $1,300,000,000 for fiscal year 2012; and
    (6) such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2013, and each fiscal year thereafter.
