   In this part:
  (1) Capability
     The term ””capability““ means the ability to provide the means to accomplish one or more tasks under specific conditions and to specific performance standards. A capability may be achieved with any combination of properly planned, organized, equipped, trained, and exercised personnel that achieves the intended outcome.
  (2) Credentialed; credentialing
     The terms ””credentialed““ and ””credentialing““ have the meanings given those terms in section 311 of this title.
  (3) Hazard
     The term ””hazard““ has the meaning given that term under section 5195a(a)(1) of title 42.
  (4) Mission assignment
     The term ””mission assignment““ means a work order issued to a Federal agency by the Agency, directing completion by that agency of a specified task and setting forth funding, other managerial controls, and guidance.
  (5) National preparedness goal
     The term ””national preparedness goal““ means the national preparedness goal established under section 743 of this title.
  (6) National preparedness system
     The term ””national preparedness system““ means the national preparedness system established under section 744 of this title.
  (7) National training program
     The term ””national training program““ means the national training program established under section 748(a) of this title.
  (8) Operational readiness
     The term ””operational readiness““ means the capability of an organization, an asset, a system, or equipment to perform the missions or functions for which it is organized or designed.
  (9) Performance measure
     The term ””performance measure““ means a quantitative or qualitative characteristic used to gauge the results of an outcome compared to its intended purpose.
  (10) Performance metric
     The term ””performance metric““ means a particular value or characteristic used to measure the outcome that is generally expressed in terms of a baseline and a target.
  (11) Prevention
     The term ””prevention““ means any activity undertaken to avoid, prevent, or stop a threatened or actual act of terrorism.
  (12) Resources
     The term ””resources““ has the meaning given that term in section 311 of this title.
  (13) Type
     The term ””type““ means a classification of resources that refers to the capability of a resource.
  (14) Typed; typing
     The terms ””typed““ and ””typing““ have the meanings given those terms in section 311 of this title.
