  (a) Agency responsibility
     In support of the national preparedness system, the President shall ensure that each Federal agency with coordinating, primary, or supporting responsibilities under the National Response Plan–
    (1) has the operational capability to meet the national preparedness goal, including–
      (A) the personnel to make and communicate decisions;
      (B) organizational structures that are assigned, trained, and exercised for the missions of the agency;
      (C) sufficient physical resources; and
      (D) the command, control, and communication channels to make, monitor, and communicate decisions;
    (2) complies with the National Incident Management System;
    (3) develops, trains, and exercises rosters of response personnel to be deployed when the agency is called upon to support a Federal response; and
    (4) develops deliberate operational plans and the corresponding capabilities, including crisis planning, to respond effectively to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters in support of the National Response Plan to ensure a coordinated Federal response.
  (b) Operational plans
     An operations plan developed under subsection (a)(4) shall meet the following requirements:
    (1) The operations plan shall be coordinated under a unified system with a common terminology, approach, and framework.
    (2) The operations plan shall be developed, in coordination with State, local, and tribal government officials, to address both regional and national risks.
    (3) The operations plan shall contain, as appropriate, the following elements:
      (A) Concepts of operations.
      (B) Critical tasks and responsibilities.
      (C) Detailed resource and personnel requirements, together with sourcing requirements.
      (D) Specific provisions for the rapid integration of the resources and personnel of the agency into the overall response.
    (4) The operations plan shall address, as appropriate, the following matters:
      (A) Support of State, local, and tribal governments in conducting mass evacuations, including–
        (i) transportation and relocation;
        (ii) short- and long-term sheltering and accommodation;
        (iii) provisions for populations with special needs, keeping families together, and expeditious location of missing children; and
        (iv) policies and provisions for pets.
      (B) The preparedness and deployment of public health and medical resources, including resources to address the needs of evacuees and populations with special needs.
      (C) The coordination of interagency search and rescue operations, including land, water, and airborne search and rescue operations.
      (D) The roles and responsibilities of the Senior Federal Law Enforcement Official with respect to other law enforcement entities.
      (E) The protection of critical infrastructure.
      (F) The coordination of maritime salvage efforts among relevant agencies.
      (G) The coordination of Department of Defense and National Guard support of civilian authorities.
      (H) To the extent practicable, the utilization of Department of Defense, National Air and Space Administration, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and commercial aircraft and satellite remotely sensed imagery.
      (I) The coordination and integration of support from the private sector and nongovernmental organizations.
      (J) The safe disposal of debris, including hazardous materials, and, when practicable, the recycling of debris.
      (K) The identification of the required surge capacity.
      (L) Specific provisions for the recovery of affected geographic areas.
  (c) Mission assignments
     To expedite the provision of assistance under the National Response Plan, the President shall ensure that the Administrator, in coordination with Federal agencies with responsibilities under the National Response Plan, develops prescripted mission assignments, including logistics, communications, mass care, health services, and public safety.
  (d) Certification
     The President shall certify on an annual basis that each Federal agency with coordinating, primary, or supporting responsibilities under the National Response Plan complies with subsections (a) and (b).
  (e) Construction
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of Defense with regard to–
    (1) the command, control, training, planning, equipment, exercises, or employment of Department of Defense forces; or
    (2) the allocation of Department of Defense resources.
