  (a) Preparation and contents
     The Corporation shall prepare a written proposal for development of the Federal Triangle property which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
    (1) A narrative description of the building to be constructed on the Federal Triangle property, including a description of the types of uses both public and private to be permitted in the building.
    (2) A comprehensive plan prepared by the Administrator for providing space for Federal officers and employees in the building.
    (3) A plan for inclusion of an international cultural and trade center comprising not to exceed 500,000 occupiable square feet, including a leasing plan prepared by the Commission for occupancy of such center and a plan for permitting conversion of space not used for such center to office space.
    (4) A comprehensive plan for providing security for the building and its occupants and contents.
    (5) A comprehensive plan for providing parking for motor vehicles of occupants of and visitors to the building and for providing access to the building by delivery and service vehicles.
    (6) A statement prepared by the Administrator of rents and other housing costs currently being paid by the United States for Federal agencies to be housed in the building.
    (7) Design criteria for the building.
    (8) An estimate of the cost of construction of the building and of the annual cost to the United States of leasing the building under section 1105 of this title.
    (9) Environmental impact documentation for development of the Federal Triangle property under Federal laws and regulations.
    (10) An analysis of the economic impact in the metropolitan area which includes the District of Columbia of development of the Federal Triangle property.
    (11) Terms and conditions approved by the Administrator for inclusion in the lease agreement under section 1105 of this title.
  (b) Limitations
    (1) Size of building
       The building (including parking facilities) to be constructed on the Federal Triangle property may not exceed 3,100,000 gross square feet in size.
    (2) Height of building
       The height of the building shall be compatible with the height of surrounding Government buildings.
    (3) Design
       The building shall be designed in harmony with historical and Government buildings in the vicinity, shall reflect the symbolic importance and historic character of Pennsylvania Avenue and the Nation“s Capital, and shall represent the dignity and stability of the Federal Government.
  (c) Consultation requirement
     In preparing the development proposal under subsection (a) of this section, the Corporation shall consult the Secretary of State, the Administrator, and the Commission.
  (d) Duties of Administrator and Commission
    (1) Administrator
       The Administrator shall prepare and submit to the Corporation for inclusion in the development proposal under subsection (a) of this section–
      (A) a comprehensive plan for providing space for Federal officers and employees in the building to be constructed on the Federal Triangle property;
      (B) a statement of rents and other housing costs currently being paid by the United States for Federal agencies to be housed in the building; and
      (C) a list of terms and conditions which the Administrator has approved for inclusion in the lease agreement to be entered into under section 1105 of this title.
    (2) Commission
       The Commission shall prepare and submit to the Corporation for inclusion in the development proposal under subsection (a) of this section a leasing plan for occupancy of the international cultural and trade center under section 1107 of this title.
  (e) Review and approval of development proposal by GSA and others
    (1) Submission for review
       As soon as practicable but not later than 365 days after August 21, 1987, the Corporation shall submit the development proposal prepared under subsection (a) of this section to the General Services Administration, the Commission, the National Capital Planning Commission, and the Commission of Fine Arts.
    (2) Approval or recommended modifications
       Not later than 60 days after the date of submission of the development proposal under paragraph (1), each governmental entity referred to in paragraph (1) shall notify the Corporation of approval or recommended modifications of the development proposal. If such governmental entity does not notify the Corporation of its approval or recommended modifications of the proposal within such 60-day period, such governmental entity shall be deemed to have approved the proposal.
    (3) Consultation
       In the event a governmental entity referred to in paragraph (1) submits recommended modifications of the development proposal within the 60-day period described in paragraph (2), the Corporation shall consult such entity regarding such modifications and may modify such proposal to take into account one or more of such recommended modifications.
  (f) Submission for Congressional review
     Not later than 150 days after the date of submission of the development proposal to governmental entities under subsection (e)(1) of this section, the Corporation shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives for review and approval the development proposal with any modifications made under subsection (e)(3) of this section, a statement of the areas of difference between such proposal and the recommended modifications of each such governmental entity, and the views of the Corporation with respect to such differences.
  (g) Funding
     Not later than 60 days after August 21, 1987, the Administrator shall transfer from amounts appropriated to the Administrator $800,000 to the Corporation for carrying out this section.
