  (a) T4Federal Information TechnologyK.–The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall perform the responsibilities set forth in this section in fulfilling the responsibilities under section 3504(h) of title 44.
  (b) T4Use of Information Technology in Federal ProgramsK.–The Director shall promote and improve the acquisition, use, security, and disposal of information technology by the Federal Government to improve the productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness of federal programs, including through dissemination of public information and the reduction of information collection burdens on the public.
  (c) T4Use of Budget Process.–
    (1) T4Analyzing, tracking, and evaluating capital investmentsK.–As part of the budget process, the Director shall develop a process for analyzing, tracking, and evaluating the risks, including information security risks, and results of all major capital investments made by an executive agency for information systems. The process shall cover the life of each system and shall include explicit criteria for analyzing the projected and actual costs, benefits, and risks, including information security risks, associated with the investments.
    (2) T4Report to congressK.–At the same time that the President submits the budget for a fiscal year to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, the Director shall submit to Congress a report on the net program performance benefits achieved as a result of major capital investments made by executive agencies for information systems and how the benefits relate to the accomplishment of the goals of the executive agencies.
  (d) T4Information Technology StandardsK.–The Director shall oversee the development and implementation of standards and guidelines pertaining to federal computer systems by the Secretary of Commerce through the National Institute of Standards and Technology under section 11331 of this title and section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g–3).
  (e) T4Designation of Executive Agents for AcquisitionsK.–The Director shall designate the head of one or more executive agencies, as the Director considers appropriate, as executive agent for Government-wide acquisitions of information technology.
  (f) T4Use of Best Practices in AcquisitionsK.–The Director shall encourage the heads of the executive agencies to develop and use the best practices in the acquisition of information technology.
  (g) T4Assessment of Other Models for Managing Information TechnologyK.–On a continuing basis, the Director shall assess the experiences of executive agencies, state and local governments, international organizations, and the private sector in managing information technology.
  (h) T4Comparison of Agency Uses of Information TechnologyK.–The Director shall compare the performances of the executive agencies in using information technology and shall disseminate the comparisons to the heads of the executive agencies.
  (i) T4Monitoring TrainingK.–The Director shall monitor the development and implementation of training in information resources management for executive agency personnel.
  (j) T4Informing CongressK.–The Director shall keep Congress fully informed on the extent to which the executive agencies are improving the performance of agency programs and the accomplishment of the agency missions through the use of the best practices in information resources management.
  (k) T4Coordination of Policy Development and ReviewK.–The Director shall coordinate with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy the development and review by the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of policy associated with federal acquisition of information technology.
