  (a) Selection process
    (1) General rule
       The Architect, under the direction of the Commission and in accordance with such policies and procedures as the Architect shall establish, shall select in accordance with provision of this subsection a person to develop squares 721 and 722 (bounded by F Street, 2nd Street, Massachusetts Avenue, and Columbia Plaza, Northeast) in the District of Columbia.
    (2) Revision of proposals
       Not later than 90 days after October 7, 1988, each of the 5 persons who submitted a proposal for development of squares 721 and 722 under the study conducted under the Act of December 28, 1985 (99 Stat. 1749–1750), which is one of the 5 proposals under consideration by the Architect may revise such proposal to take into account the objectives of this chapter and resubmit such proposal to the Architect.
    (3) Selection of revised proposal
       Subject to paragraph (4), not later than 120 days after October 7, 1988, the Architect shall select one of the persons resubmitting a proposal under paragraph (2) to develop squares 721 and 722 in the District of Columbia.
    (4) Nonsubmission of revised proposals; protection of United States interest
       If no proposal is resubmitted to the Architect under paragraph (2) in the 90-day period or if the Architect determines that none of the proposals resubmitted under paragraph (2) is in the best interests of the United States, the Architect shall conduct a competition for selection of a person to develop squares 721 and 722 in the District of Columbia. Such competition shall be conducted in accordance with such policies and procedures as the Architect may establish for a development competition.
    (5) Purpose of development
       The purpose of development of squares 721 and 722 is to provide office space for the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, the Federal Judicial Center, the Judicial Panel of Multidistrict Litigation, and the United States Sentencing Commission, chambers for retired justices of the Supreme Court, and other related offices of the judicial branch of the United States and other persons (including governmental entities).
    (6) Approval of Chief Justice
       All final decisions regarding architectural design of the building to be constructed under this Act shall be subject to the approval of the Chief Justice of the United States.
    (7) Prohibition on payments for bids and designs
       The Architect may not make any payment to any person for any bid or design proposal under any competition conducted under this subsection.
    (8) Limitations
      (A) Size of building
         The building (excluding parking facilities) to be constructed under this chapter may not exceed 520,000 gross square feet in size above the level of Columbia Plaza in the District of Columbia.
      (B) Height of building
         The height of the building and other improvements shall be compatible with the height of surrounding Government and historic buildings and conform to the provisions of the Act of June 1, 1910, commonly known as the Building Height Act of 1910 (36 Stat. 452).
      (C) Design
         The building and other improvements shall be designed in harmony with historical and Government buildings in the vicinity, shall reflect the symbolic importance and historic character of the United States Capitol and other buildings on the United States Capitol grounds, and shall represent the dignity and stability of the Federal Government.
  (b) Development agreement
    (1) Authority to enter
       The Architect may enter into with the person selected to develop squares 721 and 722 under subsection (a) of this section an agreement for the development of such squares. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, such agreement shall provide for development of such squares substantially in accordance with (A) alternative D of the report to Congress entitled ””The Study of Alternatives for the Construction of an Office Building(s) for the Administrative Office of the United States Courts““, submitted to Congress on August 10, 1987, by the Architect and the Secretary of Transportation, and (B) the Master Plan for the United States Capitol, dated 1981.
    (2) Contents
       The development agreement under paragraph (1) shall at a minimum provide for the following:
      (A) Except to the extent otherwise provided by this chapter, all design, development, and construction costs incurred with respect to the building to be constructed under the agreement will be at no cost to the United States.
      (B) Title to squares 721 and 722 will remain in the United States.
      (C) Title to the building and other improvements constructed or otherwise made on or to squares 721 and 722 will immediately revert to the United States at the expiration of not more than 30 years from the effective date of the lease agreement entered into under section 1203 of this title without payment of any compensation by the United States.
      (D) The building and other improvements constructed on or to squares 721 and 722 to be leased to the United States will be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the lease agreement will contain such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Architect to carry out the objectives of this chapter.
       The agreement shall include a copy of the lease agreement entered into under section 1203 of this title by the Architect and the person selected to develop squares 721 and 722.
  (c) Chilled water and steam from Capitol Power Plant
    (1) Authority for hookup to Capitol Power Plant
       The building to be constructed under this chapter may be connected to the Capitol Power Plant through construction of extensions to the chilled water and steam lines which serve Union Station. If such building is to be connected to the Capitol Power Plant, the agreement under subsection (b) of this section between the Architect and the person selected to construct such building shall provide that such person will bear all costs associated with the installation of chilled water and steam lines to the building and shall reimburse the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation for an equitable share of the costs incurred by the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation in the construction of extensions of the chilled water and steam lines from such Plant to Union Station.
    (2) Furnishing of chilled water and steam from Capitol Power Plant
       If the building to be constructed under this chapter is connected with the Capitol Power Plant pursuant to paragraph (1), the Architect shall furnish, on a reimbursable basis, chilled water and steam from such Plant to such building.
  (d) Construction standards and inspections
     The building and other improvements constructed under this chapter shall meet all standards applicable to construction of a Federal building. During construction, the Architect shall conduct periodic inspections of such building for the purpose of assuring that such standards are being met. Such building shall not be subject to any law of the District of Columbia relating to building codes, permits, or inspection (including any such law enacted by Congress).
  (e) Applicability of certain laws
     The building and other improvements constructed under this chapter shall not be subject to any law of the District of Columbia relating to real estate and personal property taxes, special assessments, or other taxes (including any such law enacted by Congress).
