  (a) Standards and guidelines
    (1) Authority
       The Secretary of Commerce shall, on the basis of standards and guidelines developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 278g–3(a) of title 15, promulgate standards and guidelines pertaining to Federal computer systems. The Secretary shall make such standards compulsory and binding to the extent to which the Secretary determines necessary to improve the efficiency of operation or security and privacy of Federal computer systems. The President may disapprove or modify such standards and guidelines if the President determines such action to be in the public interest. The President“s authority to disapprove or modify such standards and guidelines may not be delegated. Notice of such disapproval or modification shall be published promptly in the Federal Register. Upon receiving notice of such disapproval or modification, the Secretary of Commerce shall immediately rescind or modify such standards or guidelines as directed by the President.
    (2) Exercise of authority
       The authority conferred upon the Secretary of Commerce by this section shall be exercised subject to direction by the President and in coordination with the Director to ensure fiscal and policy consistency.
  (b) Application of more stringent standards
     The head of a Federal agency may employ standards for the cost-effective security and privacy of sensitive information in a Federal computer system within or under the supervision of that agency that are more stringent than the standards promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce under this section, if such standards contain, at a minimum, the provisions of those applicable standards made compulsory and binding by the Secretary of Commerce.
  (c) Waiver of standards
     The standards determined under subsection (a) of this section to be compulsory and binding may be waived by the Secretary of Commerce in writing upon a determination that compliance would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system, or cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Government-wide savings. The Secretary may delegate to the head of one or more Federal agencies authority to waive such standards to the extent to which the Secretary determines such action to be necessary and desirable to allow for timely and effective implementation of Federal computer system standards. The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a Chief Information Officer designated pursuant to section 3506 of title 44. Notice of each such waiver and delegation shall be transmitted promptly to Congress and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register.
  (d) Definitions
     In this section, the terms ””Federal computer system““ and ””operator of a Federal computer system““ have the meanings given such terms in section 278g–3(d) of title 15.
