  (a) T4PurposeK.–To provide a highway system which, in conjunction with the Interstate System and other Federal-aid highways in the Appalachian region, will open up an area with a developmental potential where commerce and communication have been inhibited by lack of adequate access, the Secretary of Transportation may assist in the construction of an Appalachian development highway system and local access roads serving the Appalachian region. Construction on the development highway system shall not be more than 3,025 miles. There shall not be more than 1,400 miles of local access roads that serve specific recreational, residential, educational, commercial, industrial, or similar facilities or facilitate a school consolidation program.
  (b) T4Commission Designations.–
    (1) T4What is to be designatedK.–The Appalachian Regional Commission shall transmit to the Secretary its designations of–
      (A) the general corridor location and termini of the development highways;
      (B) local access roads to be constructed;
      (C) priorities for the construction of segments of the development highways; and
      (D) other criteria for the program authorized by this section.
    (2) T4State transportation department recommendation requiredK.–Before a state member participates in or votes on designations, the member must obtain the recommendations of the state transportation department of the State which the member represents.
  (c) T4Addition to Federal-aid Primary SystemK.–When completed, each development highway not already on the Federal-aid primary system shall be added to the system.
  (d) T4Use of Specific Materials and Products.–
    (1) T4Indigenous materials and productsK.–In the construction of highways and roads authorized under this section, a State may give special preference to the use of materials and products indigenous to the Appalachian region.
    (2) T4Coal derivativesK.–For research and development in the use of coal and coal products in highway construction and maintenance, the Secretary may require each participating State, to the maximum extent possible, to use coal derivatives in the construction of not more than 10 percent of the roads authorized under this subtitle.
  (e) T4Federal ShareK.–Federal assistance to any construction project under this section shall not be more than 80 percent of the cost of the project.
  (f) T4Construction Without Federal Amounts.–
    (1) T4Payment of federal shareK.–When a participating State constructs a segment of a development highway without the aid of federal amounts and the construction is in accordance with all procedures and requirements applicable to the construction of segments of Appalachian development highways with those amounts, except for procedures and requirements that limit a State to the construction of projects for which federal amounts have previously been appropriated, the Secretary, on application by the State and with the approval of the Commission, may pay to the State the federal share, which shall not be more than 80 percent of the cost of the construction of the segment, from any amounts appropriated and allocated to the State to carry out this section.
    (2) T4No commitment or obligationK.–This subsection does not commit or obligate the Federal Government to provide amounts for segments of development highways constructed under this subsection.
  (g) T4Application of TitleK 23.–
    (1) T4Sections 106K(a) T4and 118K.–Sections 106(a) and 118 of title 23 apply to the development highway system and the local access roads.
    (2) T4Construction and maintenanceK.–States are required to maintain each development highway and local access road as provided for Federal-aid highways in title 23. All other provisions of title 23 that are applicable to the construction and maintenance of Federal-aid primary and secondary highways and which the Secretary decides are not inconsistent with this subtitle shall apply to the system and roads, respectively.
