  (a) Automation of multiple award schedule contracting
     In order to provide for the economic and efficient procurement of information technology and other commercial items, the Administrator of General Services shall provide, not later than January 1, 1998, Government-wide on-line computer access to information on products and services that are available for ordering under the multiple award schedules.
  (b) Functions
    (1) The system for providing on-line computer access shall have the capability to perform the following functions:
      (A) Provide basic information on prices, features, and performance of all products and services available for ordering through the multiple award schedules.
      (B) Provide for updating that information to reflect changes in prices, features, and performance as soon as information on the changes becomes available.
      (C) Enable users to make on-line computer comparisons of the prices, features, and performance of similar products and services offered by various vendors.
    (2) The system for providing on-line computer access shall be used to place orders under the multiple award schedules in a fiscal year for an amount equal to at least 60 percent of the total amount spent for all orders under the multiple award schedules in that fiscal year.
  (c) Streamlined procedures
    (1) Pilot program
       Upon certification by the Administrator of General Services that the system for providing on-line computer access meets the requirements of subsection (b)(1) of this section and was used as required by subsection (b)(2) of this section in the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the certification is made, the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy may establish a pilot program to test streamlined procedures for the procurement of information technology products and services available for ordering through the multiple award schedules.
    (2) Applicability to multiple award schedule contracts
       Except as provided in paragraph (4), the pilot program shall be applicable to all multiple award schedule contracts for the purchase of information technology and shall test the following procedures:
      (A) A procedure under which negotiation of the terms and conditions for a covered multiple award schedule contract is limited to terms and conditions other than price.
      (B) A procedure under which the vendor establishes the prices under a covered multiple award schedule contract and may adjust those prices at any time in the discretion of the vendor.
      (C) A procedure under which a covered multiple award schedule contract is awarded to any responsible offeror that–
        (i) has a suitable record of past performance, which may include past performance on multiple award schedule contracts;
        (ii) agrees to terms and conditions that the Administrator determines as being required by law or as being appropriate for the purchase of commercial items; and
        (iii) agrees to establish and update prices, features, and performance and to accept orders electronically through the automated system established pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
    (3) Comptroller General review and report
      (A) Not later than three years after the date on which the pilot program is established, the Comptroller General of the United States shall review the pilot program and report to the Congress on the results of the pilot program.
      (B) The report shall include the following:
        (i) An evaluation of the extent to which there is competition for the orders placed under the pilot program.
        (ii) The effect that the streamlined procedures under the pilot program have on prices charged under multiple award schedule contracts.
        (iii) The effect that such procedures have on paperwork requirements for multiple award schedule contracts and orders.
        (iv) The impact of the pilot program on small businesses and socially and economically disadvantaged small businesses.
    (4) Withdrawal of schedule or portion of schedule from pilot program
       The Administrator may withdraw a multiple award schedule or portion of a schedule from the pilot program if the Administrator determines that (A) price competition is not available under such schedule or portion thereof, or (B) the cost to the Government for that schedule or portion thereof for the previous year was higher than it would have been if the contracts for such schedule or portion thereof had been awarded using procedures that would apply if the pilot program were not in effect. The Administrator shall notify Congress at least 30 days before the date on which the Administrator withdraws a schedule or portion thereof under this paragraph. The authority under this paragraph may not be delegated.
    (5) Termination of pilot program
       Unless reauthorized by law, the authority of the Administrator to award contracts under the pilot program shall expire four years after the date on which the pilot program is established. Contracts entered into before the authority expires shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms notwithstanding the expiration of the authority to award new contracts under the pilot program.
