  (a) Maintenance and operation; admission of children
    (1) The Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives shall maintain and operate a child care center (to be known as the ””House of Representatives Child Care Center““) to furnish pre-school child care–
      (A) for children of individuals whose pay is disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives and children of support personnel of the House of Representatives; and
      (B) if places are available after admission of all children who are eligible under subparagraph (A), for children of individuals whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and children of employees of agencies of the legislative branch.
    (2) Children shall be admitted to the center on a nondiscriminatory basis and without regard to any office or position held by their parents.
  (b) Advisory board; membership, functions, etc.
    (1)      (A) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint 15 individuals (of whom 7 shall be upon recommendation of the minority leader of the House of Representatives), to serve without pay, as members of an advisory board for the center. The board shall–
        (i) provide advice to the Chief Administrative Officer on matters of policy relating to the administration and operation of the center (including the selection of the director of the center);
        (ii) be chosen from among Members of the House of Representatives, spouses of Members, parents of children enrolled in the center, and other individuals with expertise in child care or interest in the center; and
        (iii) serve during the Congress in which they are appointed, except that a member of the board may continue to serve after the expiration of a term until a successor is appointed.
      (B) The director of the center shall serve as an additional member of the board, ex officio and without the right to vote.
    (2) A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment is made.
    (3) The chairman of the board shall be elected by the members of the board.
  (c) Duties of Chief Administrative Officer of House of Representatives
     In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Chief Administrative Officer is authorized–
    (1) to collect fees for child care services;
    (2) to accept such gifts of money and property as may be approved by the Chairman and the ranking minority party member of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives, acting jointly; and
    (3) to employ a director and other employees for the center.
  (d) Salaries and expenses; funding limits
    (1) There is established an account which, subject to appropriation, and except as provided in paragraph (2), shall be the exclusive source for all salaries and expenses for activities carried out under this section. The Chief Administrative Officer shall deposit in the account any amounts received under subsection (c) of this section.
    (2) With respect to employees of the center, the House of Representatives shall make Government contributions and payments for health insurance, retirement, employment taxes, and similar benefits and programs in the same manner as such contributions and payments are made for other employees of the House of Representatives.
  (e) Definitions
     As used in this section–
    (1) the term ””Member of the House of Representatives““ means a Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress;
    (2) the term ””agency of the legislative branch““ means the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Botanic Garden, the General Accounting Office, the Government Printing Office, the Library of Congress, the Office of Technology Assessment, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Copyright Royalty Tribunal; and
    (3) the term ””support personnel““ means, with respect to the House of Representatives, any employee of a credit union or of the Architect of the Capitol, whose principal duties are to support the functions of the House of Representatives.
