  (a) Establishment; gifts
     The Architect of the Capitol, subject to the direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, is authorized to–
    (1) construct a National Garden demonstrating the diversity of plans,\1\N including the rose, our national flower, to be located between Maryland and Independence Avenues, S.W., and extending from the Botanic Garden Conservatory to Third Streets, S.W., in the District of Columbia; and
    (2) solicit, receive, accept, and hold gifts, including money, plant material, and other property, on behalf of the Botanic Garden, and to dispose of, utilize, obligate, expend, disburse, and administer such gifts for the benefit of the Botanic Garden, including among other things, the carrying out of any programs, duties, or functions of the Botanic Garden, and for constructing, equipping, and maintaining the National Garden referred to in paragraph (1).
  (b) Gifts and bequests of money; appropriations
    (1) Gifts or bequests of money under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall, when received by the Architect, be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States, who shall credit these deposits as offsetting collections to an account entitled ””Botanic Garden, Gifts and Donations““. The gifts or bequests described under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be accepted only in the total amount provided in appropriations Acts.
    (2) Receipts, obligations, and expenditures of funds under this section shall be included in annual estimates submitted by the Architect for the operation and maintenance of the Botanic Garden and such funds shall be expended by the Architect, without regard to section 5 of title 41, for the purposes of this section after approval in appropriation Acts. All such sums shall remain available until expended, without fiscal year limitation.
  (c) Donations of personal services
    (1) In carrying out this section and his duties, the Architect of the Capitol may accept personal services, including educationally related work assignments for students in nonpay status, if the service is to be rendered without compensation.
    (2) No person shall be permitted to donate his or her personal services under this section unless such person has first agreed, in writing, to waive any and all claims against the United States arising out of or in connection with such services, other than a claim under the provisions of chapter 81 of title 5.
    (3) No person donating personal services under this section shall be considered an employee of the United States for any purpose other than for purposes of chapter 81 of title 5.
    (4) In no case shall the acceptance of personal services under this section result in the reduction of pay or displacement of any employee of the Botanic Garden.
  (d) Tax deductions
     Any gift accepted by the Architect of the Capitol under this section shall be considered a gift to the United States for purposes of income, estate, and gift tax laws of the United States.
