  (a) Designation
     The parcel of approximately 5 acres of land located on the Capitol Grounds and described in subsection (b) of this section shall be known and designated as the ””Congressional Award Youth Park““.
  (b) Area included
    (1) In general
       The parcel of land described in subsection (a) of this section is–
      (A) bounded on the north by Constitution Avenue, N.W.;
      (B) bounded on the east by First Street, N.W.;
      (C) bounded on the south by Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.; and
      (D) bounded on the west by Third Street N.W.
    (2) Extension
       The park shall extend to the curbs of the streets described in paragraph (1).
  (c) Design
    (1) Competition
       The Architect of the Capitol shall sponsor a competition for the design of the park, based on specifications developed by the Architect.
    (2) Specifications
      (A) In general
         Not later than June 30, 2002, the Architect, in consultation with the majority leader and the minority leader of the Senate, and the Speaker and the minority leader of the House of Representatives, shall develop the specifications for the park.
      (B) Requirements
        (i) In general
           The specifications shall require an outdoor design that is accessible to the public.
        (ii) Inclusions
           To the maximum extent practicable, the specifications shall include requirements for–
          (I) a fountain;
          (II) extensive use of trees and flowering plants from each of the 50 States;
          (III) large-scale replicas of the medals awarded under the Congressional Award Program; and
          (IV) the inscription of the names of all Congressional Award recipients.
    (3) Selection
      (A) In general
         As soon as practicable after the competition is completed, the Architect shall forward at least 3 designs, with recommendations, to the United States Capitol Preservation Commission.
      (B) Final selection
         The United States Capitol Preservation Commission shall select and approve the final design from among the 3 designs submitted under subparagraph (A).
  (d) Funding
     Funds otherwise made available to the Architect of the Capitol under this Act shall be available to carry out this section.
