  (a) T4ExistenceK.–The General Supply Fund is a special fund in the Treasury.
  (b) T4Composition.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Fund is composed of amounts appropriated to the Fund and the value, as determined by the Administrator of General Services, of personal property transferred from executive agencies to the Administrator under section 501(d) of this title to the extent that payment is not made or credit allowed for the property.
    (2) T4Other credits.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The Fund shall be credited with all reimbursements, advances, and refunds or recoveries relating to personal property or services procured through the Fund, including–
        (i) the net proceeds of disposal of surplus personal property; and
        (ii) receipts from carriers and others for loss of, or damage to, personal property.
      (B) T4ReappropriationK.–Amounts credited under this paragraph are reappropriated for the purposes of the Fund.
    (3) T4Deposit of feesK.–Fees collected by the Administrator under section 313 of this title may be deposited in the Fund to be used for the purposes of the Fund.
  (c) T4Uses.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Fund is available for use by or under the direction and control of the Administrator for–
      (A) procuring, for the use of federal agencies in the proper discharge of their responsibilities–
        (i) personal property (including the purchase from or through the Public Printer, for warehouse issue, of standard forms, blankbook work, standard specifications, and other printed material in common use by federal agencies and not available through the Superintendent of Documents); and
        (ii) nonpersonal services;
      (B) paying the purchase price, cost of transportation of personal property and services, and cost of personal services employed directly in the repair, rehabilitation, and conversion of personal property; and
      (C) paying other direct costs of, and indirect costs that are reasonably related to, contracting, procurement, inspection, storage, management, distribution, and accountability of property and nonpersonal services provided by the General Services Administration or by special order through the Administration.
    (2) T4Other usesK.–The Fund may be used for the procurement of personal property and nonpersonal services authorized to be acquired by–
      (A) mixed-ownership Government corporations;
      (B) the municipal government of the District of Columbia; or
      (C) a requisitioning non-federal agency when the function of a federal agency authorized to procure for it is transferred to the Administration.
  (d) T4Payment for Property and Services.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–For property or services procured through the Fund for requisitioning agencies, the agencies shall pay prices the Administrator fixes under this subsection.
    (2) T4Prices fixed by administratorK.–The Administrator shall fix prices at levels sufficient to recover–
      (A) so far as practicable–
        (i) the purchase price;
        (ii) the transportation cost;
        (iii) inventory losses;
        (iv) the cost of personal services employed directly in the repair, rehabilitation, and conversion of personal property; and
        (v) the cost of amortization and repair of equipment used for lease or rent to executive agencies; and
      (B) properly allocable costs payable by the Fund under subsection (c)(1)(C).
    (3) T4Timing of payments.–
      (A) T4Payment in advanceK.–A requisitioning agency shall pay in advance when the Administrator determines that there is insufficient capital otherwise available in the Fund. Payment in advance may also be made under an agreement between a requisitioning agency and the Administrator.
      (B) T4Prompt reimbursementK.–If payment is not made in advance, the Administration shall be reimbursed promptly out of amounts of the requisitioning agency in accordance with accounting procedures approved by the Comptroller General.
      (C) T4Failure to make prompt reimbursementK.–The Administrator may obtain reimbursement by the issuance of transfer and counterwarrants, or other lawful transfer documents, supported by itemized invoices, if payment is not made by a requisitioning agency within 45 days after the later of–
        (i) the date of billing by the Administrator; or
        (ii) the date on which actual liability for personal property or services is incurred by the Administrator.
  (e) T4Reimbursement for Equipment Purchased for CongressK.–The Administrator may accept periodic reimbursement from the Senate and from the House of Representatives for the cost of any equipment purchased for the Senate or the House of Representatives with money from the Fund. The amount of each periodic reimbursement shall be computed by amortizing the total cost of each item of equipment over the useful life of the equipment, as determined by the Administrator, in consultation with the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, as appropriate.
  (f) T4Treatment of Surplus.–
    (1) T4Surplus deposited in treasuryK.–As of September 30 of each year, any surplus in the Fund above the amounts transferred or appropriated to establish and maintain the Fund (all assets, liabilities, and prior losses considered) shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    (2) T4Surplus retainedK.–From any surplus generated by operation of the Fund, the Administrator may retain amounts necessary to maintain a sufficient level of inventory of personal property to meet the needs of the federal agencies.
  (g) T4AuditsK.–The Comptroller General shall audit the Fund in accordance with the provisions of chapter 35 of title 31 and report the results of the audits.
