  (a) Advances for feasibility studies, surveys, designs, plans, etc.
     In order (1) to encourage municipalities and other public agencies and Indian tribes to maintain at all times a current and adequate reserve of planned public works the construction of which can rapidly be commenced, particularly when the national or local economic situation makes such action desirable, and (2) to help attain maximum economy and efficiency in the planning and construction of public works, the Secretary is authorized to make advances to public agencies and Indian tribes (notwithstanding the provisions of section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31) to aid in financing the cost of feasibility studies, engineering and architectural surveys, designs, plans, working drawings, specifications, or other action preliminary to and in preparation for the construction of public works, including, in the case of public works to be constructed in connection with the development of a medical center, a general plan for the development of such center: T3ProvidedK, That the making of advances hereunder shall not in any way commit the Congress to appropriate funds to assist in financing the construction of any public works so planned: T3And provided furtherK, That advances outstanding to public agencies and Indian tribes in any one State shall at no time exceed 12\1/2\ per centum of the aggregate then authorized to be appropriated to the revolving fund established pursuant to subsection (e) of this section.
  (b) Requisites for advances
     No advance shall be made hereunder with respect to any individual project, including a regional or metropolitan or other area-wide project, unless (1) it is planned to be constructed within or over a reasonable period of time considering the nature of the project, (2) it conforms to an overall State, local, or regional plan approved by a competent State, local, or regional authority, and (3) the public agency or Indian tribe formally contracts with the Federal Government to complete the plan preparation promptly and to repay such advance or part thereof when due.
  (c) Repealed. Pub. L. 100–242, title V, § 524(1), Feb. 5, 1988, 101 Stat. 1939
  (d) Rules and regulations
     The Secretary is authorized to prescribe rules and regulations to carry out the purpose of this section.
  (e) Revolving fund
     In order to provide moneys for advances in accordance with this section, the Secretary is hereby authorized to establish a revolving fund which shall comprise (1) all moneys heretofore or hereafter appropriated pursuant to this section, together with all repayments and other receipts heretofore or hereafter received in connection with advances made under this section, and (2) all repayments and other receipts received after June 30, 1964, and all advances (and claims in connection with advances) outstanding as of such date, under title V of the War Mobilization and Reconversion Act of 1944 (58 Stat. 791) [50 App. U.S.C. 1671] and the Act of October 13, 1949 (63 Stat. 841–2) [40 U.S.C. 451 et seq.]. There are authorized to be appropriated to such revolving fund, in addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of this section prior to September 2, 1964, such sums not to exceed $70,000,000, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
  (f) Surveys of public works planning
     The Secretary is authorized to use during any fiscal year not to exceed $100,000 of the moneys in the revolving fund (established under subsection (e) of this section) to conduct surveys of the status and current volume of State and local public works planning and surveys of estimated requirements for State and local public works: T3ProvidedK, That the Secretary, in conducting any such survey, may utilize or act through any Federal department or agency with its consent.
  (g) Forgiveness of outstanding advances; cancellation of contracts respecting repayment of advances
     Effective upon February 5, 1988, and in accordance with such accounting and other procedures as the Secretary may prescribe, each advance made by the Secretary under this section that has any principal amount outstanding shall be forgiven. The terms and conditions of any contract, or any amendment to a contract, for such advance with respect to any promise to repay the advance shall be canceled.
