  (a) (b) Omitted
  (c) The authority conferred by this Act shall be in addition and paramount to any authority conferred by any other law and shall not be subject to the provisions of any law inconsistent herewith, except as otherwise provided by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act [41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.], and except that sections 486(b) and 487(c) of this title shall not be applicable to any Government corporation or agency which is subject to chapter 91 of title 31.
  (d) Nothing in this Act shall impair or affect any authority of–
    (1) the President under the Philippine Property Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 418; 22 U.S.C. 1381);
    (2) any executive agency with respect to any phase (including, but not limited to, procurement, storage, transportation, processing, and disposal) of any program conducted for purposes of resale, price support, grants to farmers, stabilization, transfer to foreign governments, or foreign aid, relief, or rehabilitation: T3ProvidedK, That the agency carrying out such program shall, to the maximum extent practicable, consistent with the fulfillment of the purposes of the program and the effective and efficient conduct of its business, coordinate its operations with the requirements of this Act and the policies and regulations prescribed pursuant thereto;
    (3) any executive agency named in chapter 137 of title 10, and the head thereof, with respect to the administration of said chapter;
    (4) the Department of Defense with respect to property required for or located in occupied territories;
    (5) the Secretary of Defense with respect to the administration of the National Industrial Reserve Act of 1948 [50 U.S.C. 451 et seq.];
    (6) the Secretary of Defense, the Munitions Board, and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force with respect to the administration of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (60 Stat. 596) [50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.];
    (7) the Secretary of State under the Foreign Service Buildings Act of May 7, 1926, as amended [22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.];
    (8) the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force with respect to the administration of section 1171(b) of Appendix to title 50;
    (9) the Secretary of Agriculture or the Department of Agriculture under (A) the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (60 Stat. 230) [42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.]; (B) the Farmers Home Administration Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 1062); (C) the Act of August \1\N 31, 1947, Public Law 298, Eightieth Congress, with respect to the disposal of labor supply centers, and labor homes, labor camps, or facilities; (D) section 612c of title 7, with respect to the exportation and domestic consumption of agricultural products; or (E) section 1291 or section 1622(j) of title 7;
    (10) the Secretary of Agriculture, Farm Credit Administration, or any farm credit board under section 640T3lK(b) of title 12, with respect to the acquisition or disposal of property;
    (11) the Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Resolution Trust Corporation or any officer thereof with respect to the disposal of residential property, or of other property (real or personal) held as part of or acquired for or in connection with residential property, or in connection with the insurance of mortgages, loans, or savings association accounts under the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.] under \2\N the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.] or any other law.; \3\N
    (12) the Tennessee Valley Authority with respect to nonpersonal services, with respect to the matters referred to in section 481(a)(4) of this title, and with respect to any property acquired or to be acquired for or in connection with any program of processing, manufacture, production, or force account construction: T3ProvidedK, That the Tennessee Valley Authority shall to the maximum extent that it may deem practicable, consistent with the fulfillment of the purpose of its program and the effective and efficient conduct of its business, coordinate its operations with the requirements of this Act and the policies and regulations prescribed pursuant thereto;
    (13) the Atomic Energy Commission;
    (14) the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration or the Secretary of Commerce with respect to the disposal of airport property and airway property for use as such property. For the purpose of this paragraph the terms ””airport property““ and ””airway property““ shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in section 47301 of title 49;
    (15) the United States Postal Service;
    (16) the Maritime Administration with respect to the construction, reconstruction, and reconditioning (including outfitting and equipping incident to the foregoing), the acquisition, procurement, operation, maintenance, preservation, sale, lease, or charter of any merchant vessel or of any shipyard, ship site, terminal, pier, dock, warehouse, or other installation necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of any program of such Administration authorized by law, or nonadministrative activities incidental thereto: T3ProvidedK, That the Maritime Administration shall to the maximum extent that it may deem practicable, consistent with the fulfillment of the purposes of such programs and the effective and efficient conduct of such activities, coordinate its operations with the requirements of this Act, and the policies and regulations prescribed pursuant thereto;
    (17) the Central Intelligence Agency;
    (18) the Joint Committee on Printing, under title 44 or any other Act;
    (19) for such period of time as the President may specify, any other authority of any executive agency which the President determines within one year after the effective date of this Act should, in the public interest, stand unimpaired by this Act;
    (20) the Secretary of the Interior with respect to procurement for program operations under the Bonneville Project Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 731), as amended [16 U.S.C. 832 et seq.]; or
    (21) the Director of the United States Information Agency with respect to the furnishing of facilities in foreign countries and reception centers within the United States.
  (e) No provision of this Act, as amended, shall apply to the Senate or the House of Representatives (including the Architect of the Capitol and any building, activity, or function under his direction), but any of the services and facilities authorized by this Act to be rendered or furnished shall, as far as practicable, be made available to the Senate, the House of Representatives, or the Architect of the Capitol, upon their request, and, if payment would be required for the rendition or furnishing of a similar service or facility to an executive agency, payment therefor shall be made by the recipient thereof, upon presentation of proper vouchers, in advance or by reimbursement (as may be agreed upon by the Administrator and the officer or body making such request). Such payment may be credited to the applicable appropriation of the executive agency receiving such payment.
