  (a) Advice of Attorney General with respect to antitrust laws
     Except as provided by subsection (c) of this section, no executive agency shall dispose of any plant, plants, or other property to any private interest until such agency has received the advice of the Attorney General on the question whether such disposal would tend to create or maintain a situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws. Whenever any such disposal is contemplated by any executive agency, such agency shall transmit promptly to the Attorney General notice of such proposed disposal and the probable terms or conditions thereof. If such notice is given by any executive agency other than the General Services Administration, a copy of such notice shall be transmitted simultaneously to the Administrator. Within a reasonable time, in no event to exceed sixty days, after receipt of such notification, the Attorney General shall advise the Administrator and any other interested executive agency whether, so far as he can determine, the proposed disposition would tend to create or maintain a situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws.
  (b) Request by Attorney General for information
     Upon request made by the Attorney General, the Administrator or any other executive agency shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Attorney General such information as the Administrator or such other executive agency may possess which the Attorney General determines to be appropriate or necessary to enable him to give the advice required by this section, or to determine whether any other disposition or proposed disposition of surplus property violates or would violate any of the antitrust laws.
  (c) Applicability of provisions
     This section shall not apply to the disposal of–
    (1) real property, if the estimated fair market value is less than $3,000,000; or
    (2) personal property (other than a patent, process, technique, or invention), if the estimated fair market value is less than $3,000,000.
  (d) Provisions held not to impair, amend, etc., antitrust laws
     Nothing contained in this Act shall impair, amend, or modify any of the antitrust laws or limit or prevent the application of any such law to any person who acquires in any manner any property under the provisions of this Act.
     As used in this section, the term ””antitrust laws““ includes the Act of July 2, 1890 (ch. 647, 26 Stat. 209), as amended; the Act of October 15, 1914 (ch. 323, 38 Stat. 730), as amended; the Federal Trade Commission Act (38 Stat. 717), as amended [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.]; and sections 73 and 74 of the Act of August 27, 1894 (28 Stat. 570), as amended.
