  (a) T4Federal Agencies, Mixed-Ownership Government Corporations, and the District of ColumbiaK.–On request, the Administrator of General Services shall provide, to the extent practicable, any of the services specified in section 501 of this title to–
    (1) a federal agency;
    (2) a mixed-ownership Government corporation (as defined in section 9101 of title 31); or
    (3) the District of Columbia.
  (b) T4Qualified Nonprofit Agencies.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–On request, the Administrator may provide, to the extent practicable, any of the services specified in section 501 of this title to an agency that is–
      (A)        (i) a qualified nonprofit agency for the blind (as defined in section 5(3) of the Javits-Wagner-O“Day Act (41 U.S.C. 48b(3))); or
        (ii) a qualified nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped (as defined in section 5(4) of the Javits-Wagner-O“Day Act (41 U.S.C. 48b(4))); and
      (B) providing a commodity or service to the Federal Government under the Javits-Wagner-O“Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46 et seq.).
    (2) T4Use of servicesK.–A nonprofit agency receiving services under this subsection shall use the services directly in making or providing to the Government a commodity or service that has been determined by the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled under section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O“Day Act (41 U.S.C. 47) to be suitable for procurement by the Government.
  (c) T4Use of Certain Supply Schedules.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Administrator may provide for the use by State or local governments of Federal supply schedules of the General Services Administration for the following:
      (A) Automated data processing equipment (including firmware), software, supplies, support equipment, and services (as contained in Federal supply classification code group 70).
      (B) Alarm and signal systems, facility management systems, firefighting and rescue equipment, law enforcement and security equipment, marine craft and related equipment, special purpose clothing, and related services (as contained in Federal supply classification code group 84 or any amended or subsequent version of that Federal supply classification group).
    (2) T4Voluntary useK.–In any case of the use by a State or local government of a Federal supply schedule pursuant to paragraph (1), participation by a firm that sells to the Federal Government through the supply schedule shall be voluntary with respect to a sale to the State or local government through such supply schedule.
    (3) T4DefinitionsK.–In this subsection:
      (A) The term ””State or local government““ includes any State, local, regional, or tribal government, or any instrumentality thereof (including any local educational agency or institution of higher education).
      (B) The term ””tribal government““ means–
        (i) the governing body of any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community located in the continental United States (excluding the State of Alaska) that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, and
        (ii) any Alaska Native regional or village corporation established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
      (C) The term ””local educational agency““ has the meaning given that term in section 8013 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7713).
      (D) The term ””institution of higher education““ has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
  (d) T4Use of Supply Schedules for Certain Goods and Services.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Administrator may provide for the use by State or local governments of Federal supply schedules of the General Services Administration for goods or services that are to be used to facilitate recovery from a major disaster declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) or to facilitate recovery from terrorism or nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack.
    (2) T4Determination by secretary of homeland securityK.–The Secretary of Homeland Security shall determine which goods and services qualify as goods and services described in paragraph (1) before the Administrator provides for the use of the Federal supply schedule relating to such goods and services.
    (3) T4Voluntary useK.–In the case of the use by a State or local government of a Federal supply schedule pursuant to paragraph (1), participation by a firm that sells to the Federal Government through the supply schedule shall be voluntary with respect to a sale to the State or local government through such supply schedule.
    (4) T4DefinitionsK.–The definitions in subsection (c)(3) shall apply for purposes of this subsection.
