  (a) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section–
    (1) T4Act of physical violenceK.–The term ””act of physical violence““ means any act involving–
      (A) an assault or other infliction or threat of infliction of death or bodily harm on an individual; or
      (B) damage to, or destruction of, real or personal property.
    (2) T4Dangerous weaponK.–The term ””dangerous weapon““ includes–
      (A) all articles enumerated in section 14(a) of the Act of July 8, 1932 (ch. 465, 47 Stat. 654); and
      (B) a device designed to expel or hurl a projectile capable of causing injury to individuals or property, a dagger, a dirk, a stiletto, and a knife having a blade over three inches in length.
    (3) T4ExplosivesK.–The term ””explosives““ has the meaning given that term in section 841(d) of title 18.
    (4) T4FirearmK.–The term ””firearm““ has the meaning given that term in section 921(3) of title 18.
  (b) T4Obstruction of RoadsK.–A person may not occupy the roads in the United States Capitol Grounds in a manner that obstructs or hinders their proper use, or use the roads in the area of the Grounds, south of Constitution Avenue and B Street and north of Independence Avenue and B Street, to convey goods or merchandise, except to or from the United States Capitol on Federal Government service.
  (c) T4Sale of Articles, Display of Signs, and SolicitationsK.–A person may not carry out any of the following activities in the Grounds:
    (1) offer or expose any article for sale.
    (2) display a sign, placard, or other form of advertisement.
    (3) solicit fares, alms, subscriptions, or contributions.
  (d) T4Injuries to PropertyK.–A person may not step or climb on, remove, or in any way injure any statue, seat, wall, fountain, or other erection or architectural feature, or any tree, shrub, plant, or turf, in the Grounds.
  (e) T4Capitol Grounds and Buildings Security.–
    (1) T4Firearms, dangerous weapons, explosives, or incendiary devicesK.–An individual or group of individuals–
      (A) except as authorized by regulations prescribed by the Capitol Police Board–
        (i) may not carry on or have readily accessible to any individual on the Grounds or in any of the Capitol Buildings a firearm, a dangerous weapon, explosives, or an incendiary device;
        (ii) may not discharge a firearm or explosives, use a dangerous weapon, or ignite an incendiary device, on the Grounds or in any of the Capitol Buildings; or
        (iii) may not transport on the Grounds or in any of the Capitol Buildings explosives or an incendiary device; or
      (B) may not knowingly, with force and violence, enter or remain on the floor of either House of Congress.
    (2) T4Violent entry and disorderly conductK.–An individual or group of individuals may not willfully and knowingly–
      (A) enter or remain on the floor of either House of Congress or in any cloakroom or lobby adjacent to that floor, in the Rayburn Room of the House of Representatives, or in the Marble Room of the Senate, unless authorized to do so pursuant to rules adopted, or an authorization given, by that House;
      (B) enter or remain in the gallery of either House of Congress in violation of rules governing admission to the gallery adopted by that House or pursuant to an authorization given by that House;
      (C) with the intent to disrupt the orderly conduct of official business, enter or remain in a room in any of the Capitol Buildings set aside or designated for the use of either House of Congress or a Member, committee, officer, or employee of Congress or either House of Congress;
      (D) utter loud, threatening, or abusive language, or engage in disorderly or disruptive conduct, at any place in the Grounds or in any of the Capitol Buildings with the intent to impede, disrupt, or disturb the orderly conduct of a session of Congress or either House of Congress, or the orderly conduct in that building of a hearing before, or any deliberations of, a committee of Congress or either House of Congress;
      (E) obstruct, or impede passage through or within, the Grounds or any of the Capitol Buildings;
      (F) engage in an act of physical violence in the Grounds or any of the Capitol Buildings; or
      (G) parade, demonstrate, or picket in any of the Capitol Buildings.
    (3) T4Exemption of government officialsK.–This subsection does not prohibit any act performed in the lawful discharge of official duties by–
      (A) a Member of Congress;
      (B) an employee of a Member of Congress;
      (C) an officer or employee of Congress or a committee of Congress; or
      (D) an officer or employee of either House of Congress or a committee of that House.
  (f) T4Parades, Assemblages, and Display of FlagsK.–Except as provided in section 5106 of this title, a person may not–
    (1) parade, stand, or move in processions or assemblages in the Grounds; or
    (2) display in the Grounds a flag, banner, or device designed or adapted to bring into public notice a party, organization, or movement.
