  (a) T4In GeneralK.–A vessel that is forfeited to the Federal Government may be donated, in accordance with procedures under this subtitle, to an eligible institution described in subsection (b).
  (b) T4Eligible InstitutionK.–An eligible institution referred to in subsection (a) is an educational institution with a commercial fishing vessel safety program or other vessel safety, education and training program. The institution must certify to the federal officer making the donation that the program includes, at a minimum, all of the following courses in vessel safety:
    (1) Vessel stability.
    (2) Firefighting.
    (3) Shipboard first aid.
    (4) Marine safety and survival.
    (5) Seamanship rules of the road.
  (c) T4Terms and ConditionsK.–The donation of a vessel under this section shall be made on terms and conditions considered appropriate by the federal officer making the donation. All of the following terms and conditions are required:
    (1) T4No warrantyK.–The institution must accept the vessel as is, where it is, and without warranty of any kind and without any representation as to its condition or suitability for use.
    (2) T4MaintenanceK.–The institution is responsible for maintaining the vessel.
    (3) T4Instruction onlyK.–The vessel may be used only for instructing students in a vessel safety education and training program.
    (4) T4DocumentationK.–If the vessel is eligible to be documented, it must be documented by the institution as a vessel of the United States under chapter 121 of title 46. The requirements of paragraph (5) must be noted on the permanent record of the vessel.
    (5) T4DisposalK.–The institution must obtain prior approval from the Administrator of General Services before disposing of the vessel and any proceeds from disposal shall be payable to the Government.
    (6) T4Inspection or regulationK.–The vessel shall be inspected or regulated in the same manner as a nautical school vessel under chapter 33 of title 46.
  (d) T4Government LiabilityK.–The Government is not liable in an action arising out of the transfer or use of a vessel transferred under this section.
