  (a) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, the term ””antitrust law““ includes–
    (1) the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.);
    (2) the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12 et seq., 29 U.S.C. 52, 53);
    (3) the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.); and
    (4) sections 73 and 74 of the Wilson Tariff Act (15 U.S.C. 8, 9).
  (b) T4Advice Required.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–An executive agency shall not dispose of property to a private interest until the agency has received the advice of the Attorney General on whether the disposal to a private interest would tend to create or maintain a situation inconsistent with antitrust law.
    (2) T4ExceptionK.–This section does not apply to disposal of–
      (A) real property, if the estimated fair market value is less than $3,000,000; or
      (B) personal property (other than a patent, process, technique, or invention), if the estimated fair market value is less than $3,000,000.
  (c) T4Notice to Attorney General.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–An executive agency that contemplates disposing of property to a private interest shall promptly transmit notice of the proposed disposal, including probable terms and conditions, to the Attorney General.
    (2) T4CopyK.–Except for the General Services Administration, an executive agency that transmits notice under paragraph (1) shall simultaneously transmit a copy of the notice to the Administrator of General Services.
  (d) T4Advice From Attorney GeneralK.–Within a reasonable time, not later than 60 days, after receipt of notice under subsection (c), the Attorney General shall advise the Administrator and any interested executive agency whether, so far as the Attorney General can determine, the proposed disposition would tend to create or maintain a situation inconsistent with antitrust law.
  (e) T4Request for InformationK.–On request from the Attorney General, the head of an executive agency shall furnish information the agency possesses that the Attorney General determines is appropriate or necessary to–
    (1) give advice required by this section; or
    (2) determine whether any other disposition or proposed disposition of surplus property violates antitrust law.
  (f) T4No Effect on Antitrust LawK.–This subtitle does not impair, amend, or modify antitrust law or limit or prevent application of antitrust law to a person acquiring property under this subtitle.
