  (a) T4In General.–
    (1) T4Separate fundK.–Except as provided in subsection (b), proceeds of the disposition of surplus real and related personal property by the Administrator of General Services shall be set aside in a separate fund in the Treasury.
    (2) T4Payment of expenses from the fund.–
      (A) T4AuthorityK.–From the fund described in paragraph (1), the Administrator may obligate an amount to pay the following direct expenses incurred for the use of excess property and the disposal of surplus property under this subtitle:
        (i) Fees of appraisers, auctioneers, and realty brokers, in accordance with the scale customarily paid in similar commercial transactions.
        (ii) Costs of environmental and historic preservation services.
        (iii) Advertising and surveying.
      (B) T4Limitations.–
        (i) T4Percentage limitationK.–In each fiscal year, no more than 12 percent of the proceeds of all dispositions of surplus real and related personal property may be paid to meet direct expenses incurred in connection with the dispositions.
        (ii) T4Determination of maximum amountK.–The Director of the Office of Management and Budget each quarter shall determine the maximum amount that may be obligated under this paragraph.
      (C) T4Direct payment or reimbursementK.–An amount obligated under this paragraph may be used to pay an expense directly or to reimburse a fund or appropriation that initially paid the expense.
    (3) T4Transfer to miscellaneous receiptsK.–At least once each year, excess amounts beyond current operating needs shall be transferred from the fund described in paragraph (1) to miscellaneous receipts.
    (4) T4ReportK.–A report of receipts, disbursements, and transfers to miscellaneous receipts under this subsection shall be made annually, in connection with the budget estimate, to the Director and to Congress.
  (b) T4Real Property Under Control of a Military Department.–
    (1) T4DefinitionsK.–In this subsection, the following definitions apply:
      (A) T4Military installationK.–The term ””military installation““ has the meaning given that term in section 2687(e)(1) of title 10.
      (B) T4Base closure lawK.–The term ””base closure law““ has the meaning given that term in section 2667(h)(2) of title 10.
    (2) T4Application.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–This subsection applies to real property, including any improvement on the property, that is under the control of a military department and that the Secretary of the department determines is excess to the department“s needs.
      (B) T4ExceptionsK.–This subsection does not apply to–
        (i) damaged or deteriorated military family housing facilities conveyed under section 2854a of title 10; or
        (ii) property at a military installation designated for closure or realignment pursuant to a base closure law.
    (3) T4Transfer between military departmentsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall provide that property described in paragraph (2) is available for transfer, without reimbursement, to other military departments within the Department of Defense.
    (4) T4Alternative disposition by administrator of general servicesK.–If property is not transferred pursuant to paragraph (3), the Secretary of the military department with the property under its control shall request the Administrator to transfer or dispose of the property in accordance with this subtitle or other applicable law.
    (5) T4Proceeds.–
      (A) T4Deposit in special accountK.–For a transfer or disposition of property pursuant to paragraph (4), the Administrator shall deposit any proceeds (less expenses of the transfer or disposition as provided in subsection (a)) in a special account in the Treasury.
      (B) T4Availability of amount depositedK.–To the extent provided in an appropriation law, an amount deposited in a special account under subparagraph (A) is available for facility maintenance and repair or environmental restoration as follows:
        (i) In the case of property located at a military installation that is closed, the amount is available for facility maintenance and repair or environmental restoration by the military department that had jurisdiction over the property before the closure of the military installation.
        (ii) In the case of property located at any other military installation–
          (I) 50 percent of the amount is available for facility maintenance and repair or environmental restoration at the military installation where the property was located before it was disposed of or transferred; and
          (II) 50 percent of the amount is available for facility maintenance and repair and for environmental restoration by the military department that had jurisdiction over the property before it was disposed of or transferred.
    (6) T4ReportK.–As part of the annual request for authorizations of appropriations to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Secretary of Defense shall include an accounting of each transfer and disposal made in accordance with this subsection during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the request is made. The accounting shall include a detailed explanation of each transfer and disposal and of the use of the proceeds received from it by the Department of Defense.
