  (a) T4Credit to Reimbursable Fund or Appropriation.–
    (1) T4ApplicationK.–This subsection applies to property acquired with amounts–
      (A) not appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury; or
      (B) appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury but by law reimbursable from assessment, tax, or other revenue or receipts.
    (2) T4In generalK.–The net proceeds of a disposition or transfer of property described in paragraph (1) shall be–
      (A) credited to the applicable reimbursable fund or appropriation; or
      (B) paid to the federal agency that determined the property to be excess.
    (3) T4Calculation of net proceedsK.–For purposes of this subsection, the net proceeds of a disposition or transfer of property are the proceeds less all expenses incurred for the disposition or transfer, including care and handling.
    (4) T4Alternative credit to miscellaneous receiptsK.–If the agency that determined the property to be excess decides that it is uneconomical or impractical to ascertain the amount of net proceeds, the proceeds shall be credited to miscellaneous receipts.
  (b) T4Special Account for Refunds or Payments for Breach.–
    (1) T4DepositsK.–A federal agency that disposes of surplus property under this chapter may deposit, in a special account in the Treasury, amounts of the proceeds of the dispositions that the agency decides are necessary to permit–
      (A) appropriate refunds to purchasers for dispositions that are rescinded or that do not become final; and
      (B) payments for breach of warranty.
    (2) T4WithdrawalsK.–A federal agency that deposits proceeds in a special account under paragraph (1) may withdraw amounts to be refunded or paid from the account without regard to the origin of the amounts withdrawn.
  (c) T4Credit to Cost of Contractor“s WorkK.–If a contract made by an executive agency, or a subcontract under that contract, authorizes the proceeds of a sale of property in the custody of a contractor or subcontractor to be credited to the price or cost of work covered by the contract or subcontract, then the proceeds of the sale shall be credited in accordance with the contract or subcontract.
  (d) T4Acceptance of Property Instead of CashK.–An executive agency entitled to receive cash under a contract for the lease, sale, or other disposition of surplus property may accept property instead of cash if the President determines that the property is strategic or critical material. The property is valued at the prevailing market price when the cash payment becomes due.
  (e) T4Management of Credit, Leases, and PermitsK.–For a disposition of surplus property under this chapter, if credit has been extended, or if the disposition has been by lease or permit, the Administrator of General Services, in a manner and on terms the Administrator determines are in the best interest of the Federal Government–
    (1) shall administer and manage the credit, lease, or permit, and any security for the credit, lease, or permit; and
    (2) may enforce, adjust, and settle any right of the Government with respect to the credit, lease, or permit.
