  (a) Construction in harmony with plan of Peter Charles L“Enfant
     The purposes of this chapter shall be carried out in the District of Columbia as nearly as may be practicable in harmony with the plan of Peter Charles L“Enfant and such public buildings shall be so constructed or altered as to combine architectural beauty with practical utility.
  (b) Contiguous squares; closing of streets and alleys
     Whenever in constructing or altering a public building under this chapter in the District of Columbia the Administrator determines that such construction or alteration requires the utilization of contiguous squares as a site for such building, such portions of streets as lie between such squares and such alleys as intersect such squares are authorized to be closed and vacated if such closing and vacating is mutually agreed to by the Administrator, the Council of the District of Columbia, and the National Capital Planning Commission. The portions of such streets and alleys so closed and vacated shall thereupon become part of such site.
  (c) Consultations prior to acquisitions
     With respect to any lands located south of Independence Avenue, between Third Street SW. and Eleventh Street SE., in the District of Columbia, no such lands shall be acquired by the Administrator for use as sites, or additions to sites, without prior consultation with the House Office Building Commission created by the Act of March 4, 1907.
     With respect to any lands located in the area extending from the United States Capitol Grounds to Eleventh Street NE. and SE. and bounded by Independence Avenue on the south and G Street NE. on the north, in the District of Columbia, no such lands shall be acquired by the Administrator for use as sites, or additions to sites, without prior consultation with the Architect of the Capitol.
  (d) Stadium; contracts for athletic and other events; additional seating capacity: financing, terms and conditions; restriction of right to revenues
    (1) Notwithstanding the District of Columbia Stadium Act of 1957 or any other provision of law, the Armory Board (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the ””Board““), created by the Act of June 4, 1948 (D.C. Code, sec. 2–1702), is hereby authorized to enter into contracts for the conduct in the Robert F. Kennedy Stadium authorized by such Act of 1957 of major league football, baseball, and softball, and motorcycle races, rodeos, musical concerts, and other events, and to increase the seating capacity of such stadium by an additional number of seats, not to exceed eight thousand, and at a cost not to exceed $1,500,000. Notwithstanding such Act of 1957, or any other provision of law, the Board is further authorized to borrow such sums as may be necessary to provide for the additional seating authorized by this subsection in accordance with the following terms and conditions, which terms and conditions shall be effective during the period that any of such sums so borrowed remain unpaid:
      (A) 50 per centum of all revenues from professional football derived from such additional seats shall be used solely for the purpose of repaying the sums borrowed for such seats;
      (B) 44 per centum of such revenues shall be paid to the team operating under the trade name of the Washington Redskins, or its successors; and
      (C) 6 per centum of such revenues shall be subject to the provisions of section 6 of such Act of 1957.
    (2) In no case shall the National Football League or any team within such league (other than the aforementioned Redskins team or its successors), during the period within which any part of such sums so borrowed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection remains unpaid, be considered as being entitled to, or as acquiring any right in connection with, any part of the revenues attributable to the additional seats authorized by this subsection.
