   As used in this chapter–
  (1) The term ””public building““ means any building, whether for single or multitenant occupancy, its grounds, approaches, and appurtenances, which is generally suitable for office or storage space or both for the use of one or more Federal agencies or mixed ownership corporations, and shall include: (i) Federal office buildings, (ii) post office, (iii) customhouses, (iv) courthouses, (v) appraisers stores, (vi) border inspection facilities, (vii) warehouses, (viii) record centers, (ix) relocation facilities, (x) telecommuting centers and \1\N (xi) similar Federal facilities, and (xii) any other buildings or construction projects the inclusion of which the President may deem, from time to time hereafter, to be justified in the public interest; but shall not include any such buildings and construction projects: (A) on the public domain (including that reserved for national forests and other purposes), (B) on properties of the United States in foreign countries, (C) on Indian and native Eskimo properties held in trust by the United States, (D) on lands used in connection with Federal programs for agricultural, recreational, and conservation purposes, including research in connection therewith, (E) on or used in connection with river, harbor, flood control, reclamation or power projects, or for chemical manufacturing or development projects, or for nuclear production, research, or development projects, (F) on or used in connection with housing and residential projects, (G) on military installations (including any fort, camp, post, naval training station, airfield, proving ground, military supply depot, military school, or any similar facility of the Department of Defense), (H) on installations of the Department of Veterans Affairs used for hospital or domiciliary purposes, and (I) the exclusion of which the President may deem, from time to time hereafter, to be justified in the public interest.
  (2) The term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of General Services.
  (3) The term ””Federal agency““ means any executive agency or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his direction).
  (4) The term ””executive agency““ means any executive department or independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government including any wholly owned Government corporation and including (A) the Central-Bank for Cooperatives and the regional banks for cooperatives, (B) Federal land banks, (C) Federal intermediate credit banks, [(D) Repealed. Pub. L. 101–73, title VII, § 744(g), Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 438], (E) Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and (F) the Government National Mortgage Association.
  (5) The term ””alter““ includes repairing, remodeling, improving, or extending or other changes in a public building.
  (6) The terms ””construct““ and ””alter““ include preliminary planning, engineering, architectural, legal, fiscal, and economic investigations and studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings, specifications, procedures, and other similar actions necessary for the construction or alteration, as the case may be, of a public building.
  (7) The term ””United States““ includes the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the possessions of the United States.
