  (a) T4Establishment and DesignationK.–There is a Federal Judiciary Building in Washington, D.C., known and designated as the ””Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building““.
  (b) T4Title.–
    (1) T4Squares 721 and 722K.–Title to squares 721 and 722 remains in the Federal Government.
    (2) T4BuildingK.–Title to the Building and other improvements constructed or otherwise made immediately reverts to the Government at the expiration of not more than 30 years from the effective date of the lease agreement referred to in section 6504 of this title without payment of any compensation by the Government.
  (c) T4Limitations.–
    (1) T4Size of buildingK.–The Building (excluding parking facilities) may not exceed 520,000 gross square feet in size above the level of Columbia Plaza in the District of Columbia.
    (2) T4Height of buildingK.–The height of the Building and other improvements shall be compatible with the height of surrounding Government and historic buildings and conform to the provisions of the Act of June 1, 1910 (ch. 263, 36 Stat. 452) (known as the Building Height Act of 1910).
    (3) T4DesignK.–The Building and other improvements shall–
      (A) be designed in harmony with historical and Government buildings in the vicinity;
      (B) reflect the symbolic importance and historic character of the United States Capitol and other buildings on the United States Capitol Grounds; and
      (C) represent the dignity and stability of the Government.
  (d) T4Approval of Chief JusticeK.–All final decisions regarding architectural design of the Building are subject to the approval of the Chief Justice.
  (e) T4Chilled Water and Steam From Capitol Power PlantK.–If the Building is connected with the Capitol Power Plant, the Architect of the Capitol shall furnish chilled water and steam from the Plant to the Building on a reimbursable basis.
  (f) T4Construction StandardsK.–The Building and other improvements constructed under this chapter shall meet all standards applicable to construction of a federal building.
  (g) T4Accounting SystemK.–The Architect shall maintain an accounting system for operation and maintenance of the Building and other improvements which will allow accurate projections of the dates and cost of major repairs, improvements, reconstructions, and replacements of the Building and improvements and other capital expenditures on the Building and improvements.
  (h) T4Nonapplicability of Certain Laws.–
    (1) T4Building codes, permits, or inspectionK.–The Building is not subject to any law of the District of Columbia relating to building codes, permits, or inspection, including any such law enacted by Congress.
    (2) T4TaxesK.–The Building and other improvements constructed under this chapter are not subject to any law of the District of Columbia relating to real estate and personal property taxes, special assessments, or other taxes, including any such law enacted by Congress.
