  (a) T4Priority.–
    (1) T4Judicial branchK.–Subject to this section, the Architect of the Capitol shall make available to the judicial branch of the Federal Government all space in the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and other improvements constructed under this chapter. The space shall be made available on a reimbursable basis and substantially in accordance with the report referred to in section 3(b)(1) of the Judiciary Office Building Development Act (Public Law 100–480, 102 Stat. 2330).
    (2) T4Other federal governmental entitiesK.–The Architect may make available to federal governmental entities which are not part of the judicial branch and which are not staff of Members of Congress or congressional committees any space in the Building and other improvements that the Chief Justice decides is not needed by the judicial branch. The space shall be made available on a reimbursable basis.
    (3) T4Other personsK.–If any space remains, the Architect may sublease it pursuant to subsection (e), under the direction of the Commission for the Judiciary Office Building, to any person.
  (b) T4Space for Judicial Branch and Other Federal Governmental EntitiesK.–Space made available under subsection (a)(1) or (2) is subject to–
    (1) terms and conditions necessary to carry out the objectives of this chapter; and
    (2) reimbursement at the rate established under section 6504(b)(2) of this title plus an amount necessary to pay each year for the cost of administering the Building and other improvements (including the cost of operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, security, and structural, mechanical, and domestic care) that is attributable to the space, with the amount to be determined by the Architect and–
      (A) in the case of the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts; or
      (B) in the case of any federal governmental entity not a part of the judicial branch, the entity.
  (c) T4Space for Judicial Branch.–
    (1) T4Assignment of space within judicial branchK.–The Director may assign space made available to the judicial branch under subsection (a)(1) among offices of the judicial branch as the Director considers appropriate.
    (2) T4Vacating occupied spaceK.–When the Chief Justice notifies the Architect that the judicial branch requires additional space in the Building and other improvements, the Architect shall accommodate those requirements within 90 days after the date of the notification, except that if the space was made available to the Administrator of General Services, it shall be vacated expeditiously by not later than a date the Chief Justice and the Administrator agree on.
    (3) T4Unoccupied spaceK.–The Chief Justice has the right of first refusal to use unoccupied space in the Building to meet the needs of the judicial branch.
  (d) T4Lease by Architect.–
    (1) T4Authority to leaseK.–Subject to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the House Office Building Commission, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Architect may lease and occupy not more than 75,000 square feet of space in the Building.
    (2) T4PaymentsK.–Payments under the lease shall be made on vouchers the Architect approves. Necessary amounts may be appropriated–
      (A) to the Architect to carry out this subsection, including amounts for acquiring and installing furniture and furnishings; and
      (B) to the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate to plan for, acquire, and install telecommunications equipment and services for the Architect with respect to space leased under this subsection.
  (e) T4Subleased Space.–
    (1) T4Rental rateK.–Space subleased by the Architect under subsection (a)(3) is subject to reimbursement at a rate which is comparable to prevailing rental rates for similar facilities in the area but not less than the rate established under section 6504(b)(2) of this title plus an amount the Architect and the person subleasing the space agree is necessary to pay each year for the cost of administering the Building (including the cost of operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, security, and structural, mechanical, and domestic care) that is attributable to the space.
    (2) T4LimitationK.–A sublease under subsection (a)(3) must be compatible with the dignity and functions of the judicial branch offices housed in the Building and must not unduly interfere with the activities and operations of the judicial branch agencies housed in the Building. Sections 5104(c) and 5108 of this title do not apply to any space in the Building and other improvements subleased to a non-Government tenant under subsection (a)(3).
    (3) T4Collection of rentK.–The Architect shall collect rent for space subleased under subsection (a)(3).
  (f) T4Deposit of Rent and ReimbursementsK.–Amounts received under subsection (a)(3) (including lease payments and reimbursements) shall be deposited in the account described in section 6507 of this title.
