  (a) Amendments of zoning regulations and maps
     The Commission may make a report and recommendation to the Zoning Commission of the District of Columbia, as provided in section 5 of the Act of March 1, 1920 (D.C. Code, sec. 5–417), on proposed amendments of the zoning regulations and maps as to the relation, conformity, or consistency of such amendments with the comprehensive plan for the National Capital. The Commission may also submit to the said Zoning Commission proposed amendments or general revisions to the zoning regulations or the zoning map for said District.
  (b) Further reports on proposed amendments
     When requested by a properly authorized representative of the Commission, the Zoning Commission may at its discretion recess for a reasonable period of time any public hearing held by it to consider a proposed amendment to the zoning regulations or map, in order that the Commission or its representative may have an opportunity to present to the Zoning Commission a further report on the proposed amendment.
  (c) Performance of functions by Zoning Committee of National Capital Planning Commission
     The functions vested in the Commission pursuant to this section may, to such extent as the Commission shall determine, and subject to confirmation by the Commission when requested by the Zoning Commission of the District of Columbia, be performed by a committee of the Commission which shall be known as the Zoning Committee of the National Capital Planning Commission and shall consist of not less than three members of the Commission designated by the Commission for the purpose. The number of members serving on the Zoning Committee may be varied from time to time.
  (d) Recommendations as to platting and subdividing lands; procedure
     Any proposed change in or addition to the regulations or general orders regulating the platting and subdividing of lands and grounds in the District of Columbia shall first be submitted to the Commission by the Council of the District of Columbia for report and recommendation prior to adoption by such Council. Should the Council not concur in the recommendations of the Commission, it shall so advise the Commission with its reasons therefor and the Commission shall submit a final report within thirty days. After consideration of this final report, the Council may proceed to take action in accordance with its legal responsibilities and authority. It shall be the duty of the Commission to submit any proposed changes in or amendments to the general orders that the Commission considers appropriate and the Council shall treat the amendments proposed in the same manner as other proposed amendments.
