  (a) Creation and composition of Fund; availability; overhead costs
     There is authorized to be set aside in the Treasury a special fund which shall be known as the General Supply Fund. Such fund shall be composed of the assets of the general supply fund (including any surplus therein) created by section 3 of the Act of February 27, 1929 (45 Stat. 1342; 41 U.S.C. 7c), and transferred to the Administrator by section 752 of this title, and sums as may be appropriated thereto and the value, as determined by the Administrator, of inventories of personal property from time to time transferred to the Administrator by other executive agencies under authority of section 481(a)(2) of this title to the extent that payment is not made or credit allowed therefor, and the fund shall assume all of the liabilities, obligations, and commitments of the general supply fund created by such Act of February 27, 1929. The General Supply Fund shall be available for use by or under the direction and control of the Administrator (1) for procuring personal property (including the purchase from or through the Public Printer, for warehouse issue, of standard forms, blankbook work, standard specifications, and other printed material in common use by Federal agencies not available through the Superintendent of Documents) and nonpersonal services for the use of Federal agencies in the proper discharge of their responsibilities, (2) for paying the purchase price, transportation of personal property and services, and the cost of personal services employed directly in the repair, rehabilitation, and conversion of personal property, and (3) for paying other direct costs of, and indirect costs that are reasonably related to, contracting, procurement, inspection, storage, management, distribution, and accountability of property and nonpersonal services provided by the General Services Administration or by special order through such Administration.
  (b) Payments by requisitioning agencies; fixing of prices; advance of funds
     Payment by requisitioning agencies shall be at prices fixed by the Administrator. Such prices shall be fixed at levels so as to recover so far as practicable the applicable purchase price, the transportation cost, inventory losses, the cost of personal services employed directly in the repair, rehabilitation, and conversion of personal property, and the cost of amortization and repair of equipment utilized for lease or rent to executive agencies. Such prices shall also include an additional charge to recover properly allocable costs payable by the General Supply Fund under subsection (a)(3) of this section with respect to the supplies or services concerned. Requisitioning agencies shall pay by advance of funds in all cases where it is determined by the Administrator that there is insufficient capital otherwise available in the General Supply Fund. Advances of funds also may be made by agreement between the requisitioning agencies and the Administrator. Where an advance of funds is not made, the General Services Administration shall be reimbursed promptly out of funds of the requisitioning agency in accordance with accounting procedures approved by the Comptroller General: T3ProvidedK, That in any case where payment shall not have been made by the requisitioning agency within forty-five days after the date of billing by the Administrator or the date on which an actual liability for personal property or services is incurred by the Administrator, whichever is the later, reimbursement may be obtained by the Administrator by the issuance of transfer and counterwarrants, or other lawful transfer documents, supported by itemized invoices.
  (c) Credits to Fund
     The General Supply Fund shall be credited with all reimbursements, advances of funds, and refunds or recoveries relating to personal property or services procured through the fund, including the net proceeds of disposal of surplus personal property procured through the fund and receipts from carriers and others for loss of, or damage to, personal property procured through the fund; and the same are reappropriated for the purposes of the fund.
  (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 87–600, § 1(c), Aug. 24, 1962, 76 Stat. 401
  (e) Audit; surplus; report to Congress
    (1) As of September 30 of each year, there shall be covered into the United States Treasury as miscellaneous receipts any surplus in the General Supply Fund, all assets, liabilities, and prior losses considered, above the amounts transferred or appropriated to establish and maintain said fund.
    (2) The Comptroller General shall make audits of the General Supply Fund in accordance with the provisions of chapter 35 of title 31 and make reports on the results thereof.
  (f) Additional uses of Fund
     Subject to the requirements of subsections (a) to (e) of this section, the General Supply Fund also may be used for the procurement of personal property and nonpersonal services authorized to be acquired by mixed-ownership Government corporations, or by the municipal government of the District of Columbia, or by a requisitioning non-Federal agency when the function of a Federal agency authorized to procure for it is transferred to the General Services Administration.
  (g) Material tests; fees; disposition of fees
     Whenever any producer or vendor shall tender any article or commodity for sale or lease to the General Services Administration or to any procurement authority acting under the direction and control of the Administrator pursuant to this Act, the Administrator is authorized in his discretion, with the consent of such producer or vendor, to cause to be conducted, in such manner as the Administrator shall specify, such tests as he shall prescribe either to determine whether such article or commodity conforms to prescribed specifications and standards, or to aid in the development of contemplated specifications and standards. When the Administrator determines that the making of such tests will serve predominantly the interest of such producer or vendor, he shall charge such producer or vendor a fee which shall be fixed by the Administrator in such amount as will recover the cost of conducting such tests, including all components of such costs, determined in accordance with accepted accounting principles. When the Administrator determines that the making of such tests will not serve predominantly the interest of such producer or vendor, he shall charge such producer or vendor such fee as he shall determine to be reasonable for the furnishing of such testing service. All such fees collected by the Administrator may be deposited in the general supply fund to be used for any purpose authorized by subsection (a) of this section.
