  (a) Authority of Administrator to coordinate and provide for purchase, lease and maintenance of equipment by Federal agencies
    (1) The Administrator is authorized and directed to coordinate and provide for the economic and efficient purchase, lease, and maintenance of automatic data processing equipment by Federal agencies.
    (2)      (A) For purposes of this section, the term ””automatic data processing equipment““ means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystems of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching interchange, transmission, or reception, of data or information–
        (i) by a Federal agency, or
        (ii) under a contract with a Federal agency which–
          (I) requires the use of such equipment, or
          (II) requires the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product which is performed or produced making significant use of such equipment.
      (B) Such term includes–
        (i) computers;
        (ii) ancillary equipment;
        (iii) software, firmware, and similar procedures;
        (iv) services, including support services; and
        (v) related resources as defined by regulations issued by the Administrator for General Services.
    (3) This section does not apply to–
      (A) automatic data processing equipment acquired by a Federal contractor which is incidental to the performance of a Federal contract;
      (B) radar, sonar, radio, or television equipment;
      (C) the procurement by the Department of Defense of automatic data processing equipment or services if the function, operation, or use of which–
        (i) involves intelligence activities;
        (ii) involves cryptologic activities related to national security;
        (iii) involves the command and control of military forces;
        (iv) involves equipment which is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or
        (v) is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions, provided that this exclusion shall not include automatic data processing equipment used for routine administrative and business applications such as payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management; or
      (D) the procurement of automatic data processing equipment or services by the Central Intelligence Agency.
  (b) Procurement, maintenance and repair of equipment; transfer between agencies; joint utilization; establishment and operation of equipment pools and data processing centers; delegation of Administrator“s authority
    (1) Automatic data processing equipment suitable for efficient and effective use by Federal agencies shall be provided by the Administrator through purchase, lease, transfer of equipment from other Federal agencies, or otherwise, and the Administrator is authorized and directed to provide by contract or otherwise for the maintenance and repair of such equipment. In carrying out his responsibilities under this section the Administrator is authorized to transfer automatic data processing equipment between Federal agencies, to provide for joint utilization of such equipment by two or more Federal agencies, and to establish and operate equipment pools and data processing centers for the use of two or more such agencies when necessary for its most efficient and effective utilization.
    (2) The Administrator may delegate to one or more Federal agencies authority to operate automatic data processing equipment pools and automatic data processing centers, and to lease, purchase, or maintain individual automatic data processing systems or specific units of equipment, including such equipment used in automatic data processing pools and automatic data processing centers, when such action is determined by the Administrator to be necessary for the economy and efficiency of operations, or when such action is essential to national defense or national security. The Administrator may delegate to one or more Federal agencies authority to lease, purchase, or maintain automatic data processing equipment to the extent to which he determines such action to be necessary and desirable to allow for the orderly implementation of a program for the utilization of such equipment.
    (3) If the Administrator finds that a senior official of an agency designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of title 44 is sufficiently independent of program responsibility and has sufficient experience, resources, and ability to carry out fairly and effectively procurements under this section, the Administrator may delegate to such official the authority to lease, purchase, or maintain automatic data processing equipment pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, except that any such delegation shall not relieve the Administrator of the responsibilities assigned to the Administrator under this section. A delegation by the Administrator under this subsection shall not preclude the Administrator from reviewing individual procurement requests if the Administrator determines that circumstances warrant such a review. The Administrator shall retain authority to revoke such delegations, both in general and with regard to any specific matter, including the authority to revoke a delegation of authority with respect to a particular contract after award of the contract, except that the Administrator may revoke a delegation of authority after the contract is awarded only when there is a finding of a violation of law or regulation in connection with the contract award..\1\N In acting for the Administrator, any official to whom approval authority has been delegated under this subsection shall comply fully with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Administrator.
  (c) Inapplicability of other inconsistent provisions of law
     The proviso following paragraph (4) in section 481(a) of this title and the provisions of section 474(d) of this title shall have no application in the administration of this section. No other provision of this Act or any other Act which is inconsistent with the provisions of this section shall be applicable in the administration of this section.
  (d) Standards and guidelines for Federal computer systems; promulgation, disapproval or modification, etc.
    (1) The Secretary of Commerce shall, on the basis of standards and guidelines developed by the National Bureau of Standards pursuant to section 278g–3(a)(2) and (3) of title 15, promulgate standards and guidelines pertaining to Federal computer systems, making such standards compulsory and binding to the extent to which the Secretary determines necessary to improve the efficiency of operation or security and privacy of Federal computer systems. The President may disapprove or modify such standards and guidelines if he determines such action to be in the public interest. The President“s authority to disapprove or modify such standards and guidelines may not be delegated. Notice of such disapproval or modification shall be submitted promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register. Upon receiving notice of such disapproval or modification, the Secretary of Commerce shall immediately rescind or modify such standards or guidelines as directed by the President.
    (2) The head of a Federal agency may employ standards for the cost-effective security and privacy of sensitive information in a Federal computer system within or under the supervision of that agency that are more stringent than the standards promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce, if such standards contain, at a minimum, the provisions of those applicable standards made compulsory and binding by the Secretary of Commerce.
    (3) The standards determined to be compulsory and binding may be waived by the Secretary of Commerce in writing upon a determination that compliance would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system, or cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Government-wide savings. The Secretary may delegate to the head of one or more Federal agencies authority to waive such standards to the extent to which the Secretary determines such action to be necessary and desirable to allow for timely and effective implementation of Federal computer systems standards. The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of title 44. Notice of each such waiver and delegation shall be transmitted promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register.
    (4) The Administrator shall revise the Federal information resources management regulations (41 CFR ch. 201) to be consistent with the standards and guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce under this subsection.
    (5) As used in this subsection, the terms ””Federal computer system““ and ””operator of a Federal computer system““ have the meanings given in section 278g–3(d) of title 15.
  (e) Limitations on authority of Administrator and Secretary of Commerce; notice and review of Administrator“s determinations
     The authority conferred upon the Administrator and the Secretary of Commerce by this section shall be exercised subject to direction by the President and to fiscal and policy control exercised by the Office of Management and Budget. Authority so conferred upon the Administrator shall not be so construed as to impair or interfere with the determination by agencies of their individual automatic data processing equipment requirements, including the development of specifications for and the selection of the types and configurations of equipment needed. The Administrator shall not interfere with, or attempt to control in any way, the use made of automatic data processing equipment or components thereof by any agency. The Administrator shall provide adequate notice to all agencies and other users concerned with respect to each proposed determination whether or not the automatic data processing equipment will be provided by the Administrator or whether or not the authority to lease, purchase, or maintain the equipment will be delegated. If the Administrator denies an agency procurement request such denial shall be subject to review and decision by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, unless the President otherwise directs. Such review and decision shall be made only on the basis of a written appeal, and such written appeal, together with any written communications to the Administrator or any officer or employee of the Office of Management and Budget concerning such denial shall be made available to the public.
  (f) Automated data processing dispute resolution
    (1) Upon request of an interested party in connection with any procurement that is subject to this section (including any such procurement that is subject to delegation of procurement authority), the board of contract appeals of the General Services Administration (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the ””board““) shall review, as provided in this subsection, any decision by a contracting officer that is alleged to violate a statute, a regulation, or the conditions of a delegation of procurement authority. Such review shall be conducted under the standard applicable to review of contracting officer final decisions by boards of contract appeals. The authority of the board to conduct such review shall include the authority to determine whether any procurement is subject to this section and the authority to review regulations to determine their consistency with applicable statutes. A proceeding, decision, or order of the board pursuant to this subsection shall not be subject to interlocutory appeal or review. An interested party who has filed a protest under subchapter V of chapter 35 of title 31, with respect to a procurement or proposed procurement may not file a protest with respect to that procurement or proposed procurement under this subsection.
    (2)      (A) When a protest under this subsection is filed before the award of a contract in a protested procurement, the board, at the request of an interested party and within 10 days of the filing of the protest, shall hold a hearing to determine whether the board should suspend the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator“s delegation of procurement authority for the protested procurement on an interim basis until the board can decide the protest.
      (B)        (i) The board shall suspend the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator“s delegation of procurement authority unless the Federal agency concerned establishes that–
          (I) absent action by the board, contract award is likely to occur within 30 days of the hearing; and
          (II) urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect interests of the United States will not permit waiting for the decision of the board.
        (ii) A suspension under this subparagraph shall not preclude the Federal agency concerned from continuing the procurement process up to but not including award of the contract unless the board determines such action is not in the best interests of the United States.
    (3)      (A)        (i) If, with respect to an award of a contract, the board receives notice of a protest under this subsection within the period described in clause (ii), the board shall, at the request of an interested party, hold a hearing to determine whether the board should suspend the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator“s delegation of procurement authority for the protested procurement on an interim basis until the board can decide the protest.
        (ii) The period referred to in clause (i) is the period beginning on the date on which the contract is awarded and ending at the end of the later of–
          (I) the tenth day after the date of contract award; or
          (II) the fifth day after the debriefing date offered to an unsuccessful offeror for any debriefing that is requested and, when requested, is required.
        (iii) The board shall hold the requested hearing within 5 days after the date of the filing of the protest or, in the case of a request for debriefing under the provisions of section 2305(b)(5) of title 10 or section 303B(e) of this Act [41 U.S.C. 253b(e)], within 5 days after the later of the date of the filing of the protest or the date of the debriefing.
      (B) The board shall suspend the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator“s delegation of procurement authority to acquire any goods or services under the contract which are not previously delivered and accepted unless the Federal agency concerned establishes that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect interests of the United States will not permit waiting for the decision of the board.
    (4)      (A) The board shall conduct such proceedings and allow such discovery as may be required for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable resolution of the protest.
      (B) Subject to any deadlines imposed by section 9(a) of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 608(a)), the board shall give priority to protests filed under this subsection. The board shall issue its final decision within 65 days after the date of the filing of the protest, unless the board“s chairman determines that the specific and unique circumstances of the protest require a longer period, in which case the board shall issue such decision within the longer period determined by the chairman. An amendment which adds a new ground of protest should be resolved, to the maximum extent practicable, within the time limits established for resolution of the initial protest.
      (C) The board may dismiss a protest that the board determines–
        (i) is frivolous;
        (ii) has been brought or pursued in bad faith; or
        (iii) does not state on its face a valid basis for protest.
    (5)      (A) In making a decision on the merits of protests brought under this section, the board shall accord due weight to the policies of this section and the goals of economic and efficient procurement set forth in this section. The board may consider any decision, determination, opinion, or statement made by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget or any officer of any other Federal agency regarding applicability of this section to a particular procurement, and may request the advice of the Director or such officer with regard to such applicability, but shall not be bound by any such decision, determination, opinion, or statement when determining whether a procurement is subject to this section.
      (B) If the board determines that a challenged agency action violates a statute or regulation or the conditions of any delegation of procurement authority issued pursuant to this section, the board may suspend, revoke, or revise the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator“s delegation of procurement authority applicable to the challenged procurement.
      (C) Whenever the board makes such a determination, it may, in accordance with section 1304 of title 31, further declare an appropriate prevailing party to be entitled to the cost of filing and pursuing the protest (including reasonable attorneys“ fees and consultant and expert witness fees), and bid and proposal preparation. However, no party (other than a small business concern (within the meaning of section 632(a) of title 15)) may be declared entitled to costs for consultants and expert witness fees that exceed the highest rate of compensation for expert witnesses paid by the Federal Government, and no party (other than a small business concern (within the meaning of section 632(a) of title 15)) may be declared entitled to attorneys“ fees that exceed $150 per hour unless the board, on a case by case basis, determines that an increase in the cost of living or a special factor, such as the limited availability of qualified attorneys for the proceedings involved, justifies a higher fee.
      (D) Any agreement that provides for the dismissal of a protest and involves a direct or indirect expenditure of appropriated funds shall be submitted to the board and shall be made a part of the public record (subject to any protective order considered appropriate by the board) before dismissal of the protest. If a Federal agency is a party to a settlement agreement, the submission of the agreement to the board shall include a memorandum, signed by the contracting officer concerned, that describes in detail the procurement, the grounds for protest, the Federal Government“s position regarding the grounds for protest, the terms of the settlement, and the agency“s position regarding the propriety of the award or proposed award of the contract at issue in the protest.
      (E) Payment of amounts due from an agency under subparagraph (C) or under the terms of a settlement agreement under subparagraph (D) shall be made from the appropriation made by section 1304 of title 31 for the payment of judgments. The Federal agency concerned shall reimburse that appropriation account out of funds available for the procurement.
    (6)      (A) The final decision of the board may be appealed by the head of the Federal agency concerned and by any interested party, including interested parties who intervene in any protest filed under this subsection, as set forth in the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 601 et seq.).
      (B) If the board revokes, suspends, or revises the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator“s delegation of procurement authority after the contract award, the affected contract shall be presumed valid as to all goods or services delivered and accepted under the contract before the suspension, revocation, or revision of such procurement authority or delegation.
      (C) Nothing contained in this subsection shall affect the board“s power to order any additional relief which it is authorized to provide under any statute or regulation. However, the procedures set forth in this subsection shall only apply to procurements conducted under the authority contained in this section. In addition, nothing contained in this subsection shall affect the right of any interested party to file a protest with the contracting agency or to file an action in a district court of the United States or the United States Court of Federal Claims.
    (7)      (A) The board shall adopt and issue such rules and procedures as may be necessary to the expeditious disposition of protests filed under the authority of this subsection.
      (B) The procedures shall provide that, in the computation of any period described in this subsection–
        (i) the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run not be included; and
        (ii) the last day after such act, event, or default be included, unless–
          (I) such last day is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday; or
          (II) in the case of a filing of a paper at the board, such last day is a day on which weather or other conditions cause the closing of the board in which event the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday shall be included.
      (C) The procedures may provide for electronic filing and dissemination of documents and information required under this subsection and in so providing shall consider the ability of all parties to achieve electronic access to such documents and records.
      (D) The procedures shall provide that if the board expressly finds that a protest or a portion of a protest is frivolous or has been brought or pursued in bad faith, or that any person has willfully abused the board“s process during the course of a protest, the board may impose appropriate procedural sanctions, including dismissal of the protest.
    (8) Repealed. Pub. L. 103–355, title I, § 1437(2), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3294.
    (9) For purposes of this subsection:
      (A) The term ””protest““ means a written objection by an interested party to any of the following:
        (i) A solicitation or other request by a Federal agency for offers for a contract for the procurement of property or services.
        (ii) The cancellation of such a solicitation or other request.
        (iii) An award or proposed award of such a contract.
        (iv) A termination or cancellation of an award of such a contract, if the written objection contains an allegation that the termination or cancellation is based in whole or in part on improprieties concerning the award of the contract.
      (B) The term ””interested party““ means, with respect to a contract or proposed contract described in subparagraph (A), an actual or prospective bidder or offeror whose direct economic interest would be affected by the award of the contract or by failure to award the contract.
      (C) The term ””prevailing party““, with respect to a determination of the board under paragraph (5)(B) that a challenged action of a Federal agency violates a statute or regulation or the conditions of a delegation of procurement authority issued pursuant to this section, means a party that demonstrated such violation.
  (g) Procurement from sole source or by specific make and model
     The justifications and approvals required by section 253(f)(1) of title 41 shall apply in the case of any procurement under this section for which the minimum needs are so restrictive that only one manufacturer is capable of satisfying such needs. Such procurement includes either a sole source procurement or a procurement by specific make and model. Such justification and approval shall be required notwithstanding that more than one bid or offer is made or that the procurement obtains price competition and such procurement shall be treated as a procurement using procedures other than competitive procedures for purposes of section 417(b) of title 41.
  (h) Data collection
    (1) The Administrator shall collect and compile data regarding the procurement of automatic data processing equipment under this section. The data collected and compiled shall include, at a minimum, with regard to each contract for such a procurement, the following:
      (A) The procuring agency.
      (B) The contractor.
      (C) The automatic data processing equipment and services procured.
      (D) The manufacturer of the equipment procured.
      (E) The amount of the contract, to the extent that the amount is not proprietary information.
      (F) The type of contract used.
      (G) The extent of competition for award.
      (H) Whether compatibility restrictions were used in awarding the contract.
      (I) Significant modifications of the contract.
      (J) Contract price, to the extent that the price is not proprietary information.
    (2) The head of each Federal agency shall report to the Administrator in accordance with regulations issued by the Administrator all information that the Administrator determines necessary in order to satisfy the requirements in paragraph (1).
    (3) The Administrator–
      (A) shall carry out a systematic, periodic review of information received under this subsection;
      (B) shall use such information, as appropriate, to determine the compliance of Federal agencies with the requirements of this section; and
      (C) may take appropriate corrective action regarding an agency“s authority to lease and purchase automatic data processing equipment upon any substantial failure by the head of the agency to report to the Administrator in accordance with this subsection.
    (4) The Administrator shall take appropriate corrective action upon failure of a Federal agency to comply with the terms of any delegation of authority to lease or purchase automatic data processing equipment or failure to comply with any applicable law or regulation.
    (5) The Administrator shall require in the regulations implementing this subsection that (A) data collected pursuant to this subsection be drawn from existing Federal agency information; and (B) no new or additional information reporting requirements may be imposed on offerors or contractors to collect such data.
      (i) Short title
         This section may be cited as the ””Brooks Automatic Data Processing Act““.
