  (a) Reservation of certain rights by the Secretary; definition
     Upon the request of the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary shall assign to the Secretary of Transportation all of the Secretary“s right, title, and interest in the Union Station complex, including all agreements and leases entered into under part A of this subchapter. Such assignment may reserve to the Secretary the right to lease space for visitor services, to the extent the Secretary and the Secretary of Transportation may agree. For purposes of this subchapter, the ””Union Station complex““ shall include all the real property, air rights, and improvements leased by the Secretary under part A of this subchapter, together with any property acquired and all improvements made in accordance with this part.
  (b) Installation of new roofs and drainage systems
     Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall, not later than twelve months after December 29, 1981, complete the installation of new roofs and associated drainage systems on all existing roof surfaces of the historic Union Station building. Of funds appropriated to the Secretary under the construction appropriation for the National Park System for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1982, not less than $8,100,000 shall be available to and allocated by the Secretary for such roof work. In the event the assignment provided for in subsection (a) of this section occurs prior to completion of such roof work, the Secretary shall continue to be responsible for such roof work until its completion, except as the Secretary and the Secretary of Transportation may otherwise agree.
  (c) Permission to the Secretary of Transportation to carry out certain activities
     Prior to the assignment provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall permit the Secretary of Transportation to carry out or cause to be carried out the activities authorized by this part or by title VII of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 851 et seq.).
  (d) Secretary to be relieved of certain obligations upon assignment and roof installation
     After both the assignment provided for in subsection (a) of this section and the completion of the roof installation required by subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary shall be relieved of the authority and obligation under part A of this subchapter to construct and operate a National Visitor Center at Union Station. The provisions of part A of this subchapter shall thereafter be deemed superseded by any contrary or inconsistent provisions of this part.
