  (a) T4Criteria for Issuing PermitK.–Before issuing a permit for the construction of a commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, the Secretary of the Interior or Administrator of General Services, as appropriate, shall determine that–
    (1) the site and design have been approved by the Secretary or Administrator, the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts;
    (2) knowledgeable individuals qualified in the field of preservation and maintenance have been consulted to determine structural soundness and durability of the commemorative work and to ensure that the commemorative work meets high professional standards;
    (3) the sponsor authorized to construct the commemorative work has submitted contract documents for construction of the commemorative work to the Secretary or Administrator; and
    (4) the sponsor authorized to construct the commemorative work has available sufficient amounts to complete construction of the project.
  (b) T4Donation for Perpetual Maintenance and Preservation.–
    (1) In addition to the criteria described above in subsection (a), no construction permit shall be issued unless the sponsor authorized to construct the commemorative work has donated an amount equal to 10 percent of the total estimated cost of construction to offset the costs of perpetual maintenance and preservation of the commemorative work. All such amounts shall be available for those purposes pursuant to the provisions of this subsection. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply in instances when the commemorative work is constructed by a Department or agency of the Federal Government and less than 50 percent of the funding for such work is provided by private sources.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, money on deposit in the Treasury on the date of enactment of the Commemorative Works Clarification and Revision Act of 2003 provided by a sponsor for maintenance pursuant to this subsection shall be credited to a separate account in the Treasury.
    (3) Money provided by a sponsor pursuant to the provisions of this subsection after the date of enactment of the Commemorative Works Clarification and Revision Act of 2003 shall be credited to a separate account with the National Park Foundation.
    (4) Upon request of the Secretary or Administrator (as appropriate), the Secretary of the Treasury or the National Park Foundation shall make all or a portion of such moneys available to the Secretary or the Administrator (as appropriate) for the maintenance of a commemorative work. Under no circumstances may the Secretary or Administrator request funds from a separate account exceeding the total money in the account established under paragraph (2) or (3). The Secretary and the Administrator shall maintain an inventory of funds available for such purposes. Funds provided under this paragraph shall be available without further appropriation and shall remain available until expended.
  (c) T4Suspension for Misrepresentation in FundraisingK.–The Secretary of the Interior or Administrator may suspend any activity under this chapter that relates to the establishment of a commemorative work if the Secretary or Administrator determines that fundraising efforts relating to the work have misrepresented an affiliation with the work or the Federal Government.
  (d) T4Annual ReportK.–The person authorized to construct a commemorative work under this chapter must submit to the Secretary of the Interior or Administrator an annual report of operations, including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant. The person shall pay for the report.
