  (a) Common financial aid form and processing
    (1) Single form required
       The Secretary, in cooperation with representatives of agencies and organizations involved in student financial assistance, shall produce, distribute, and process free of charge a common financial reporting form to be used to determine the need and eligibility of a student for financial assistance under parts A, C, and D of this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 (other than under subpart 4 of part A of this subchapter) and to determine the need of a student for the purpose of part B of this subchapter. The Secretary may include on the form developed pursuant to this paragraph not more than eight nonfinancial data items selected in consultation with the States to assist the States in awarding State student financial assistance. Such form shall satisfy the requirements of section 1070a(d) of this title. For the purpose of collecting eligibility and other data for the purpose of part B of this subchapter, the Secretary shall develop a separate, identifiable loan application document (pursuant to section 1082(m) of this title) that applicants or institutions in which the students are enrolled or accepted for enrollment shall submit directly to eligible lenders and on which the applicant shall clearly indicate a choice of a lender.
    (2) Charges to students and parents for use of form prohibited
       The common financial reporting form prescribed by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be produced, distributed, and processed by the Secretary and no parent or student shall be charged a fee for the collection, processing, or delivery of financial aid through the use of such form. The need and eligibility of a student for financial assistance under parts A, C, and D of this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 (other than under subpart 4 of part A of this subchapter) and the need of a student for the purpose of part B of this subchapter, may only be determined by using the form developed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection. No student may receive assistance under parts A, C, and D of this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 (other than under subpart 4 of part A of this subchapter) or have the student“s need established for the purpose of part B of this subchapter, except by use of the form developed by the Secretary pursuant to this section. No data collected on a form for which a fee is charged shall be used to complete the form prescribed under paragraph (1).
    (3) Distribution of data
       Institutions of higher education and States shall receive, without charge, the data collected by the Secretary using the form developed pursuant to this section for the purposes of determining need and eligibility for institutional and State financial aid awards. Entities designated by institutions of higher education or States to receive such data shall be subject to all requirements of this section, unless such requirements are waived by the Secretary.
    (4) Contracts for collection and processing
      (A) The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, enter into not less than 5 contracts with States, institutions of higher education, or private organizations for the purposes of the timely collection and processing of the form developed pursuant to paragraph (1) and the timely delivery of the data submitted on such form. The Secretary shall use such contracts to assist States and institutions of higher education with the collection of additional data required to award State or institutional financial assistance, except that the Secretary shall not include these additional data items on the common financial reporting form developed pursuant to this section. The Secretary shall include in each such contract a requirement that–
        (i) any charges by the contractor to the student or parent for additional data items required by a State or institution for any purpose (regardless of the method of collection) shall be reasonable and shall not exceed the marginal cost of collecting, processing, and delivering such additional data, taking into account any payment received by the contractor to produce, distribute, and process the common financial reporting form prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1); and
        (ii) the contractor will require any person or entity to whom the contractor provides such additional data to agree not to collect from any student or parent any charge that would not be permitted under this subparagraph for any such additional data.
      (B) To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that at least one contractor, or a portion of one contract, under this paragraph will serve graduate and professional students.
      (C) As part of the procurement process for the 1993–1994 award year, and for all procurements thereafter pertaining to the contracts under this paragraph, the Secretary shall require all entities competing for such contracts to comply with all requirements of this subsection and to–
        (i) use the common financial reporting form as prescribed in paragraph (1), which shall be clearly identified as the ””Free Application for Federal Student Aid““; and
        (ii) use a common, simplified reapplication form as the Secretary shall prescribe pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, in each award year.
      (D) The Secretary shall reimburse all approved contractors at a reasonable predetermined rate for processing such applications, for issuing eligibility reports, and for carrying out other services or requirements that may be prescribed by the Secretary.
      (E) All approved contractors shall be required to adhere to all editing, processing, and reporting requirements established by the Secretary to ensure consistency.
      (F) No approved contractor shall enter into exclusive arrangements with guarantors, lenders, secondary markets, or institutions of higher education for the purpose of reselling or sharing of data collected for the multiple data entry process. All data collected under a contract issued by the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph for the multiple data entry process is the exclusive property of the Secretary and may not be transferred to a third party by an approved contractor without the Secretary“s express written approval.
  (b) Streamlined reapplication process
    (1) The Secretary shall, within 240 days after July 23, 1992, develop a streamlined reapplication form and process, including electronic reapplication process, consistent with the requirements of subsection (a) of this section, for those recipients who apply for financial aid funds under this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 in the next succeeding academic year subsequent to the initial year in which such recipients apply.
    (2) The Secretary shall develop appropriate mechanisms to support reapplication.
    (3) The Secretary shall determine, in cooperation with States, institutions of higher education, agencies and organizations involved in student financial assistance, the data elements that can be updated from the previous academic year“s application.
    (4) Nothing in this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 shall be interpreted as limiting the authority of the Secretary to reduce the number of data elements required of reapplicants.
    (5) Individuals determined to have a zero family contribution pursuant to section 1087ss of this title shall not be required to provide any financial data, except that which is necessary to determine eligibility under that section.
  (c) Information to committees of Congress
     Copies of all rules, regulations, guidelines, instructions, and application forms published or promulgated pursuant to this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 shall be provided to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives at least 45 days prior to their effective date.
  (d) Toll-free information
     The Secretary shall contract for, or establish, and publicize a toll-free telephone service to provide timely and accurate information to the general public. The information provided shall include specific instructions on completing the application form for assistance under this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42. Such service shall also include a service accessible by telecommunications devices for the deaf (TDD“s) and shall, in addition to the services provided for in the previous sentence, refer such students to the national clearinghouse on postsecondary education that is authorized under section 1433(c) of this title.
  (e) Preparer
     Any financial aid application required to be made under this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 shall include the name, signature, address or employer“s address, social security number or employer identification number, and organizational affiliation of the preparer of such financial aid application.
  (f) Special rule
     Nothing in section 1544 \1\N of the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 shall relieve processors or institutions of higher education of any or all obligations under this section.
