  (a) Meetings
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall convene regional meetings to obtain public involvement in the development of proposed regulations for parts B, F, and G of this subchapter. Such meetings shall include individuals and representatives of the groups involved in student financial assistance programs under this subchapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42, such as students, legal assistance organizations that represent students, institutions of higher education, guaranty agencies, lenders, secondary markets, loan servicers, guaranty agency servicers, and collection agencies.
    (2) Issues
       During such meetings, the Secretary shall provide for a comprehensive discussion and exchange of information concerning the implementation of parts B, F, and G of this subchapter, as amended by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992. The Secretary shall take into account the information received at such meetings in the development of proposed regulations and shall publish a summary of such information in the Federal Register together with such proposed regulations.
  (b) Draft regulations
     After holding regional meetings and before publishing proposed regulations in the Federal Register, the Secretary shall prepare draft regulations implementing parts B, F, and G of this subchapter as amended by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 and shall submit such regulations to a negotiated rulemaking process. The Secretary shall follow the guidance provided in sections 305.82–4 and 305.85–5 of chapter 1, Code of Federal Regulations, and any successor recommendation, regulation, or law. Participants in the negotiations process shall be chosen by the Secretary from individuals nominated by groups participating in the regional meetings described in subsection (a)(1) of this section, and shall include both representatives of such groups from Washington, D.C., and industry participants. To the extent possible, the Secretary shall select individuals reflecting the diversity in the industry, representing both large and small participants, as well as individuals serving local areas and national markets. The negotiation process shall be conducted in a timely manner in order that the final regulations may be issued by the Secretary within the 240-day period described in section 1232(g) \1\N of this title.
  (c) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act
     The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to activities carried out under this section.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated in any fiscal year or made available from funds appropriated to carry out this part in any fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, except that if no funds are appropriated pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall make funds available to carry out this section from amounts appropriated for the operations and expenses of the Department of Education.
