  (a) Authority
    (1) Grants by Secretary
       In any fiscal year in which appropriations for this subpart do not equal or exceed $50,000,000, the Secretary is authorized, in accordance with this subpart, to award grants, on a competitive basis, to States to enable States to pay the Federal share of supporting programs that carry out the purpose of this subpart.
    (2) State grant program
       In any fiscal year in which appropriations for this subpart equal or exceed $50,000,000, the Secretary is authorized, in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, to make grants to States in accordance with allocations under subsection (b) of this section to enable States to pay the Federal share of supporting programs that carry out the purposes of this subpart.
  (b) Allocation among States
     Except as provided in subsection (a)(1) of this section, each State shall be eligible to receive a grant under this subpart in each fiscal year that bears as nearly as possible the same ratio to the amount appropriated under section 1111h of this title as the allocation of funds under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6311 et seq.] in that State bears to the total allocation of such funds in all States, except that no State grant shall be less than $500,000 in any fiscal year.
  (c) Duration of grant
     Each grant awarded under this subpart shall be awarded for a term of 5 years, subject to the availability of appropriations.
  (d) Federal share
     The Federal share of each grant awarded under this subpart shall be 75 percent in the first year in which the State receives a grant, 65 percent in the second such year, 55 percent in the third such year, 45 percent in the fourth such year, and 35 percent in the fifth such year.
  (e) Non-Federal share
     The non-Federal share of each grant awarded under this subpart may be in cash or in kind fairly evaluated, including planned equipment or services.
  (f) Submission of State applications
     In order to receive a grant under this subpart, a State shall submit an application at such time or times, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may prescribe by regulation. Such application shall–
    (1) contain assurances that the State will award grants on a competitive basis to eligible recipients submitting applications described in section 1111c of this title;
    (2) set forth a program of activities for carrying out the purposes set forth in this subpart in such detail as will enable the Secretary to determine the degree to which such program will accomplish such purposes and such other policies, procedures, and assurances as the Secretary may require by regulation.
