  (a) Program authority
     The Secretary is authorized to make demonstration grants to eligible consortia to enable such eligible consortia to–
    (1) operate critical language and area studies programs;
    (2) develop and acquire educational equipment and materials; and
    (3) develop teacher training programs, texts, curriculum, and other activities designed to improve and expand the instruction of foreign languages at elementary and secondary schools across the Nation.
  (b) Grant limitation
     The Secretary shall not award a grant which exceeds $2,000,000 to an eligible consortium under this section in any fiscal year, but shall award grants of sufficient size, scope and quality for a program of comprehensive instruction of foreign languages.
  (c) Special rules
    (1) Priority
       In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible consortia with demonstrated, proven effectiveness in the field of critical language and area studies and which have been in existence for at least 1 year prior to applying for a grant under this section.
    (2) Equitable distribution
       In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall take into consideration providing an equitable geographic distribution of such grants among the regions of the United States.
    (3) Program requirement
       Each eligible consortium receiving a grant under this section shall include in the activities assisted pursuant to such grant, a study abroad or cultural exchange program.
  (d) Eligible consortium
    (1) In general
       For the purposes of this section, the term ””eligible consortium““ means a cooperative effort between entities in one or more States that must include at least 4 schools, of which–
      (A) one shall be an institution of higher education;
      (B) one shall be a secondary school with experience in teaching critical languages;
      (C) one shall be a secondary school with experience in teaching critical languages and in which at least 25 percent of the students are eligible to be counted under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.]; and
      (D) one shall be a secondary school in which at least 25 percent of the students are eligible to be counted under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
    (2) Nonprofit organizations
       Each eligible consortium described in paragraph (1) may include a nonprofit organization to provide services not otherwise available from the entities described in paragraph (1).
  (e) Administration
     Each eligible consortium receiving a grant under this section may use not more than 10 percent of such grant for administrative expenses.
  (f) Application
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), each eligible consortium desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
    (2) Special rule
       The State educational agency or State higher education agency responsible for the supervision of any one school participating in an eligible consortium may submit the application described in paragraph (1) on behalf of such eligible consortium.
  (g) ””Critical language““ defined
     For purposes of this section, the term ””critical language““ means each of the languages contained in the list of critical foreign languages designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 212(d) of the Education for Economic Security Act (50 Fed. Reg. 149, 31413).
  (h) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years to carry out the provisions of this section.
