  (a) Program authorized
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to States in accordance with the provisions of this section.
    (2) Duration
       Grants under this section shall be awarded for a period of 5 years.
  (b) Application
     A State desiring a grant pursuant to this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form and containing or accompanied by such information or assurances as the Secretary may require.
  (c) Lead agency
    (1) Designation of lead agency
       The chief executive officer of a State, in consultation with the State educational agency, desiring to receive a grant shall designate an appropriate State agency to act as the lead agency to–
      (A) administer funds received under this section;
      (B) develop a State plan pursuant to subsection (e) of this section; and
      (C) coordinate the provision of services with other appropriate Federal, State, and local programs.
    (2) Advisory committee
       The lead agency shall establish an advisory committee, described in subsection (d) of this section, to assist in developing the plan required under subsection (e) of this section.
  (d) Advisory committee
     Each advisory committee established pursuant to subsection (c)(2) of this section shall consist of a representative of the following agencies, institutions, organizations, divisions, programs or departments in the State to the extent such entities exist within such State:
    (1) The lead State agency responsible for administering funds received under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act [42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.].
    (2) Other State agencies administering or regulating childcare, early childhood development or education programs.
    (3) Institutions of higher education.
    (4) Organizations representing early childhood development staff and parents.
    (5) A local child care resource and referral agency or an organization representing local child care resource and referral.
    (6) A State Head Start association.
    (7) An organization with significant experience in training in the fields of early childhood development, early care and early education.
    (8) State agencies or departments administering or regulating employment, job training, and community development programs.
  (e) State plan
    (1) In general
       Each State desiring a grant under this section shall submit, through the lead agency, a plan to the Secretary at such time, in such manner and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding the contents of such plan.
    (2) Contents
       Each plan submitted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall–
      (A) identify the lead agency as described in subsection (c) of this section;
      (B) assess the training offerings and content of such offerings, amount of training required for an early childhood development staff license or certificate, compensation, recruitment and turnover of staff, and any coordination of training offerings and professional growth of early childhood development staff in the State;
      (C) describe the goals of the activities assisted under this part; and
      (D) describe how the State shall–
        (i) identify and maintain a career development path, based on a progression of roles for early childhood development staff, with each role articulated with training and different levels of responsibility and suggested compensation, in such manner as will permit an individual to qualify for a more responsible role;
        (ii) ensure that trainers of early childhood development staff in the State are qualified, licensed or certified in accordance with State law;
        (iii) describe the ways in which the State will encourage the coordination of training programs among institutions of higher education, including, if practicable, transfer of credits among institutions;
        (iv) set forth the ways in which the State will pay the costs of any assessment, credentialing, certification, licensing, training offering, training inventory, increase in staff participation in training, or other services assisted by a grant under this section;
        (v) describe the ways in which the State plans to coordinate the various State and local agencies and organizations to maximize coordination of standards and requirements for certifications, licenses, and accreditations;
        (vi) describe the ways in which the State will compile and disseminate information on–
          (I) training offerings;
          (II) requirements for admission into courses and programs;
          (III) requirements for a license, certificate, credential, or degree to which such offerings may be applied;
          (IV) funding sources available for such activities; and
          (V) the cost of training offerings; and
        (vii) describe the ways in which the State will use the funds received under this section and any other funds available to the State to carry out the activities described in the State plan.
