  (a) Program authorized; authorization of appropriations
    (1) Program authorized
       From the amount appropriated under paragraph (2), the Secretary is authorized to award grants to institutions of higher education, public or nonprofit private library institutions, or consortia of such institutions for the acquisition of, and provision of access to, periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States.
    (2) Authorization of appropriations
       In addition to the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 1128 of this title, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years to carry out this section.
  (b) Authorized activities
     Grants under this section shall be used for the following purposes:
    (1) To acquire periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States which are not commonly held by American academic libraries and which are of scholarly or research importance.
    (2) To maintain in machine-readable form current bibliographic information on periodicals and other research materials thus acquired, and to enter such information into one or more of the widely available bibliographic data bases.
    (3) To preserve such periodicals and other research materials.
    (4) To make such periodicals and other research materials widely available to researchers and scholars.
  (c) Application and preference
    (1) Application
       Each institution or consortium desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information and assurances as the Secretary may reasonably require.
    (2) Preference
       The Secretary shall give preference to grant applications according to the following criteria:
      (A) The total number of library research materials in an institution“s or consortium“s collection.
      (B) The comprehensiveness, both current and retrospective, of the institution“s or consortium“s collection of periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States.
      (C) Public accessibility to the institution“s or consortium“s collection of periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States.
      (D) The institution“s or consortium“s technological capability to share its collection of periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States with other institutions of higher education, with public or nonprofit institutions, and with individual scholars.
      (E) The institution“s or consortium“s budget and staff capability to build, maintain, and service periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States.
    (3) Sufficient size
       The Secretary shall award grants under this section of sufficient size to enable an institution or consortium to–
      (A) substantially improve its collection of foreign periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States; and
      (B) contribute to a comprehensive national base of foreign language materials for students and scholars.
  (d) Written agreement
    (1) Agreement required
       Prior to the awarding of grants authorized under subsection (c) of this section, each recipient institution or consortium shall file a formal written agreement with the Secretary which outlines their collecting responsibilities regarding periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States and ensures public access.
    (2) Funding limitation
       No funds from grants authorized under subsection (c) of this section may be used by a recipient institution or consortium to acquire and process periodicals and other research materials published outside the United States other than that specified in the agreement filed with the Secretary under paragraph (1).
  (e) Copyright
     Nothing in this section shall be considered to amend, affect, or define the provisions of title 17, relating to copyright.
