  (a) Establishment
     The Secretary is authorized to award a grant, on a competitive basis, to an eligible recipient to enable such recipient to establish an Institute for International Public Policy (hereafter in this part referred to as the ””Institute““). The Institute shall conduct a program to significantly increase the numbers of African Americans and other underrepresented minorities in the international service, including private international voluntary organizations and the foreign service of the United States. Such program shall include a program for such students to study abroad in their junior year, fellowships for graduate study, internships, intensive academic programs such as summer institutes, or intensive language training.
  (b) ””Eligible recipient““ defined
    (1) In general
       For the purpose of this part, the term ””eligible recipient““ means a consortium consisting of 1 or more of the following entities:
      (A) An institution eligible for assistance under part B of subchapter III of this chapter.
      (B) An institution of higher education which serves substantial numbers of African American or other underrepresented minority students.
      (C) An institution of higher education with programs in training foreign service professionals.
    (2) Host institution
       Each eligible recipient receiving a grant under this section shall designate an institution of higher education as the host institution for the Institute.
  (c) Application
     Each eligible recipient desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
  (d) Duration
     Grants made pursuant to this section shall be awarded for a period not to exceed 5 years.
  (e) Match required
     The eligible recipient of a grant under this section shall contribute to the conduct of the program supported by the grant an amount from non-Federal sources equal to at least one-fourth the amount of the grant, which contribution may be in cash or in kind.
