  (a) Grant authority
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall make grants to academic departments and programs and other academic units of institutions of higher education that provide courses of study leading to a graduate degree in order to enable such institutions to provide assistance to graduate students in accordance with this part.
    (2) Additional grants
       The Secretary may also make grants to such departments and programs and to other units of institutions of higher education granting graduate degrees which submit joint proposals involving nondegree granting institutions which have formal arrangements for the support of doctoral dissertation research with degree-granting institutions. Nondegree granting institutions eligible for awards as part of such joint proposals include any organization which–
      (A) is described in section 501(c)(3) of title 26, and is exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such title;
      (B) is organized and operated substantially to conduct scientific and cultural research and graduate training programs;
      (C) is not a private foundation;
      (D) has academic personnel for instruction and counseling who meet the standards of the institution of higher education in which the students are enrolled; and
      (E) has necessary research resources not otherwise readily available in such institutions to such students.
  (b) Award and duration of grants
    (1) Awards
       The principal criterion for the allocation of awards shall be the relative quality of the graduate programs presented in competing applications. Consistent with an allocation of awards based on quality of competing applications, the Secretary shall, in making such grants, promote an equitable geographic distribution among eligible public and private institutions of higher education.
    (2) Duration
       The Secretary shall approve a grant recipient under this part for a 3-year period. From the sums appropriated under this part for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall not make a grant to any academic department or program of an institution of higher education of less than $100,000 or greater than $750,000 per fiscal year.
    (3) Reallotment
       Whenever the Secretary determines that an academic department or program of an institution of higher education is unable to use all of the amounts available to it under this part, the Secretary shall, on such dates during each fiscal year as the Secretary may fix, reallot the amounts not needed to academic departments and programs of institutions which can use the grants authorized by this part.
  (c) Preference to continuing grant recipients
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall make new grant awards under this part only to the extent that each previous grant recipient has received continued funding in accordance with subsection (b)(2) of this section.
    (2) Ratable reduction
       To the extent that appropriations under this part are insufficient to comply with paragraph (1), available funds shall be distributed by ratably reducing the amounts required to be awarded by subsection (b)(2) of this section.
