  (a) Establishment
     There is established a National Board of the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (hereafter in this part referred to as the ””Board““). The Board shall consist of 15 members appointed by the Secretary for overlapping 3-year terms. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum. Any member of the Board who has served for 6 consecutive years shall thereafter be ineligible for appointment to the Board during a 2-year period following the expiration of such sixth year.
  (b) Membership
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall designate one of the members of the Board as Chairperson of the Board. A majority of the members of the Board shall be public interest representatives, including students, and a minority shall be educational representatives. All members selected shall be individuals able to contribute an important perspective on priorities for improvement in postsecondary education and strategies of educational and institutional change.
    (2) Appointment of Director
       The Secretary shall appoint the Director of the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (hereafter in this part referred to as the ””Director““).
  (c) Duties
     The Board shall–
    (1) advise the Secretary and the Director on priorities for the improvement of postsecondary education and make such recommendations as the Board may deem appropriate for the improvement of postsecondary education and for the evaluation, dissemination, and adaptation of demonstrated improvements in postsecondary educational practice;
    (2) advise the Secretary and the Director on the operation of the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education, including advice on planning documents, guidelines, and procedures for grant competitions prepared by the Fund; and
    (3) meet at the call of the Chairperson, except that the Board shall meet whenever one-third or more of the members request in writing that a meeting be held.
  (d) Information and assistance
     The Director shall make available to the Board such information and assistance as may be necessary to enable the Board to carry out its functions.
