  (a) Use of funds
    (1) Grants to States under this part shall be used in accordance with State plans (and amendments thereto) approved under sections 1206 and 1207 of this title, to pay the Federal share of the cost of the establishment or expansion of adult education programs to be carried out by local educational agencies, correctional education agencies, community-based organizations, public or private nonprofit agencies, postsecondary educational institutions, and other institutions that have the ability to provide literacy services to adults and families. Each State educational agency receiving financial assistance under this part shall provide assurance that local educational agencies, public or private nonprofit agencies, community-based organizations, correctional education agencies, postsecondary educational institutions, and institutions which serve educationally disadvantaged adults will be provided direct and equitable access to all Federal funds provided under this part. Failure to provide the assurance required by the preceding sentence shall disqualify a State from receiving its allotment under this chapter. In determining which programs shall receive assistance under this paragraph, the State shall consider–
      (A) the past effectiveness of applicants in providing services (especially with respect to recruitment and retention of educationally disadvantaged adults and the learning gains demonstrated by such adults);
      (B) the degree to which the applicant will coordinate and utilize other literacy and social services available in the community; and
      (C) the commitment of the applicant to serve individuals in the community that are most in need of literacy services.
    (2) Grants to States provided under this section may also be used to carry out programs by a consortium which includes a for-profit agency, organization, or institution if such agency, organization, or institution can make a significant contribution to attaining the objectives of this Act. Whenever the establishment or expansion of programs includes a for-profit agency, organization, or institution, as part of a consortium, a contract with such agency, organization, or institution, for the establishment or expansion of such programs shall be entered into by the public or private nonprofit agency, institution, or organization.
    (3)      (A) Grants to States provided under this section shall also be used for competitive 2-year grants to public housing authorities for literacy programs and related activities. Any public housing authority that receives a grant under this subparagraph shall consult with local adult education providers in conducting programs and activities with assistance provided under the grant. Any grant provided under this subparagraph shall be referred to as a ””Gateway Grant““.
      (B) The Secretary shall, not less often than every 2 years, evaluate any grants made under this paragraph.
    (4) Such application shall contain such information as the State educational agency considers necessary, including a description of current programs, activities, and services receiving assistance from Federal, State, and local sources; the projected goals of the applicant with respect to participant recruitment, retention, and educational achievement and how the applicant will measure and report progress in meeting its goals; cooperative arrangements (including arrangements with business, industry, and volunteer literacy organizations as appropriate) that have been made to deliver services to adults as well as assurances that adult educational programs, services, or activities provided under this chapter are coordinated with and not duplicative of services, programs, or activities made available to adults under other Federal, State, and local programs, including the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.], the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.], the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.], the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.], title IX of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 7801 et seq.], the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.], and the Domestic Volunteer Service Act [42 U.S.C. 4950].
    (5) The State educational agency shall give preference to those applicants who have demonstrated or can demonstrate a capability to recruit and serve educationally disadvantaged adults, particularly in areas with a high proportion of adults who do not have a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education or its equivalent.
  (b) Limitations on use of funds
    (1) Not less than 10 percent of the funds paid to a State under subsection (a) of this section shall be used for corrections education and education for other institutionalized individuals in accordance with part B of this subchapter.
    (2) Not more than 20 percent of a State“s allotment shall be used for programs of equivalency for a certificate of graduation from a secondary school.
