  (a) Grants to States
    (1) The Secretary may make grants to States which have State plans approved by the Secretary under section 1206a of this title for the establishment, operation, and improvement of English literacy programs for individuals of limited English proficiency. Such grants may provide for support services for program participants, including child care and transportation costs.
    (2) A State shall be eligible to receive a grant under paragraph (1) if the State includes in a State plan submitted to the Secretary under section 1206a of this title a description of–
      (A) the number of individuals of limited English proficiency in the State who need or could benefit from programs assisted under this subchapter; \1\N
      (B) the activities which would be undertaken under the grant and the manner in which such activities will promote English literacy and enable individuals in the State to participate fully in national life;
      (C) how the activities described in subparagraph (B) will serve individuals of limited English proficiency, including the qualifications and training of personnel who will participate in the proposed activities;
      (D) the resources necessary to develop and operate the proposed activities and the resources to be provided by the State; and
      (E) the specific goals of the proposed activities and how achievement of these goals will be measured.
    (3) The Secretary may terminate a grant only if the Secretary determines that–
      (A) the State has not made substantial progress in achieving the specific educational goals set out in the application; or
      (B) there is no longer a need in the State for the activities funded by the grant.
  (b) Set-aside for community-based organizations
     A State that is awarded a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall use not less than 50 percent of funds awarded under the grant to fund programs operated by community-based organizations with the demonstrated capability to administer English proficiency programs.
  (c) Report
     A State that is awarded a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall submit to the Secretary a report describing the activities funded under the grant for each fiscal year covered by the grant.
  (d) Demonstration program
     The Secretary, subject to the availability of funds appropriated pursuant to this section, shall directly, and through grants and contracts with public and private nonprofit agencies, institutions, and organizations, carry out a program–
    (1) through the Adult Education Division to develop innovative approaches and methods of literacy education for individuals of limited English proficiency utilizing new instructional methods and technologies; and
    (2) to designate the Center for Applied Linguistics of the Office of Educational Research and Improvement as a national clearinghouse on literacy education for individuals of limited English proficiency to collect and disseminate information concerning effective approaches or methods, including coordination with employment training and other education programs.
  (e) Evaluation and audit
     The Secretary shall evaluate the effectiveness of programs conducted under this section. Programs funded under this section shall be audited in accordance with chapter 75 of title 31.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
    (1) There are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for the fiscal year 1988, $26,300,000 for the fiscal year 1989, $27,600,000 for the fiscal year 1990, $29,000,000 for the fiscal year 1991, $30,500,000 for the fiscal year 1992, and $32,000,000 for the fiscal year 1993 to carry out this section.
    (2) Funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall remain available until expended.
    (3) Funds appropriated under this subsection may be combined with other funds made available for the State by the Federal Government for literacy training for individuals with limited English proficiency.
    (4) Not more than 10 percent of funds available under this section may be used to carry out the provisions of subsection (d) of this section.
    (5) Not more than 5 percent of funds available under this section may be used for State administration, technical assistance, and training.
