  (a) Establishment
    (1) Any State which desires to receive financial assistance under section 1473 of this title shall establish a State Interagency Coordinating Council composed of at least 15 members but not more than 25 members, unless the State provides sufficient justification for a greater number of members in the application submitted pursuant to section 1478 of this title.
    (2) The Council shall be appointed by the Governor. In making appointments to the Council, the Governor shall ensure that the membership of the Council reasonably represents the population of the State.
    (3) The Governor shall designate a member of the Council to serve as the chairperson of the Council, or shall require the Council to so designate such a member. Any member of the Council who is a representative of the lead agency designated under section 1476(b)(9) of this title may not serve as the chairperson of the Council.
  (b) Composition
    (1) The Council shall be composed as follows:
      (A) At least 20 percent of the members shall be parents, including minority parents, of infants or toddlers with disabilities or children with disabilities aged 12 or younger, with knowledge of, or experience with, programs for infants and toddlers with disabilities. At least one such member shall be a parent of an infant or toddler with a disability or a child with a disability aged 6 or younger.
      (B) At least 20 percent of the members shall be public or private providers of early intervention services.
      (C) At least one member shall be from the State legislature.
      (D) At least one member shall be involved in personnel preparation.
      (E) At least one member shall be from each of the State agencies involved in the provision of, or payment for, early intervention services to infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families and shall have sufficient authority to engage in policy planning and implementation on behalf of such agencies.
      (F) At least one member shall be from the State educational agency responsible for preschool services to children with disabilities and shall have sufficient authority to engage in policy planning and implementation on behalf of such agency.
      (G) At least one member shall be from the agency responsible for the State governance of insurance, especially in the area of health insurance.
    (2) The Council may include other members selected by the Governor, including a representative from the Bureau of Indian Affairs, or where there is no BIA operated or funded school, from the Indian Health Service or the tribe/tribal council.
  (c) Meetings
     The Council shall meet at least quarterly and in such places as it deems necessary. The meetings shall be publicly announced, and, to the extent appropriate, open and accessible to the general public.
  (d) Management authority
     Subject to the approval of the Governor, the Council may prepare and approve a budget using funds under this subchapter to conduct hearings and forums, to reimburse members of the Council for reasonable and necessary expenses for attending Council meetings and performing Council duties (including child care for parent representatives), to pay compensation to a member of the Council if such member is not employed or must forfeit wages from other employment when performing official Council business, to hire staff, and to obtain the services of such professional, technical, and clerical personnel as may be necessary to carry out its functions under this subchapter.
  (e) Functions of Council
    (1) The Council shall–
      (A) advise and assist the lead agency designated or established under section 1476(b)(9) of this title in the performance of the responsibilities set out in such section, particularly the identification of the sources of fiscal and other support for services for early intervention programs, assignment of financial responsibility to the appropriate agency, and the promotion of the interagency agreements,
      (B) advise and assist the lead agency in the preparation of applications and amendments thereto,
      (C) advise and assist the State educational agency regarding the transition of toddlers with disabilities to services provided under subchapter II of this chapter, to the extent such services are appropriate, and
      (D) prepare and submit an annual report to the Governor and to the Secretary on the status of early intervention programs for infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families operated within the State.
    (2) The Council may advise and assist the lead agency and the State educational agency regarding the provision of appropriate services for children aged birth to 5, inclusive.
  (f) Conflict of interest
     No member of the Council shall cast a vote on any matter which would provide direct financial benefit to that member or otherwise give the appearance of a conflict of interest under State law.
  (g) Use of existing Councils
     To the extent that a State has established a Council before September 1, 1986, that is comparable to the Council described in this section, such Council shall be considered to be in compliance with this section. Within 4 years after the date the State accepts funds under section 1473 of this title, such State shall establish a council that complies in full with this section.
