   The procedural safeguards required to be included in a statewide system under section 1476(b)(12) of this title shall provide, at a minimum, the following:
  (1) The timely administrative resolution of complaints by parents. Any party aggrieved by the findings and decision regarding an administrative complaint shall have the right to bring a civil action with respect to the complaint, which action may be brought in any State court of competent jurisdiction or in a district court of the United States without regard to the amount in controversy. In any action brought under this paragraph, the court shall receive the records of the administrative proceedings, shall hear additional evidence at the request of a party, and, basing its decision on the preponderance of the evidence, shall grant such relief as the court determines is appropriate.
  (2) The right to confidentiality of personally identifiable information, including the right of parents or guardians to written notice of and written consent to the exchange of such information among agencies consistent with Federal and State law.
  (3) The right of the parents or guardian to determine whether they, their infant or toddler, or other family members will accept or decline any early intervention service under this subchapter in accordance with State law without jeopardizing other early intervention services under this subchapter.
  (4) The opportunity for parents or a guardian to examine records relating to assessment, screening, eligibility determinations, and the development and implementation of the individualized family service plan.
  (5) Procedures to protect the rights of the infant or toddler with a disability whenever the parents or guardian of the child are not known or unavailable or the child is a ward of the State, including the assignment of an individual (who shall not be an employee of the State agency providing services) to act as a surrogate for the parents or guardian.
  (6) Written prior notice to the parents or guardian of the infant or toddler with a disability whenever the State agency or service provider proposes to initiate or change or refuses to initiate or change the identification, evaluation, placement, or the provision of appropriate early intervention services to the infant or toddler with a disability.
  (7) Procedures designed to assure that the notice required by paragraph (6) fully informs the parents or guardian, in the parents“ or guardian“s native language, unless it clearly is not feasible to do so, of all procedures available pursuant to this section.
  (8) During the pendency of any proceeding or action involving a complaint, unless the State agency and the parents or guardian otherwise agree, the child shall continue to receive the appropriate early intervention services currently being provided or, if applying for initial services, shall receive the services not in dispute.
