  (a) Territories and insular possessions
     From the sums appropriated to carry out this subchapter for any fiscal year, the Secretary may reserve 1 percent for payments to Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in accordance with their respective needs.
  (b) Payments to Secretary of the Interior for assistance to Indians
    (1) The Secretary shall, subject to this subsection, make payments to the Secretary of the Interior to be distributed to tribes or tribal organizations (as defined under section 450b of title 25) or consortium of the above entities for the coordination of assistance in the provision of early intervention services by the States to infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families on reservations served by elementary and secondary schools for Indian children operated or funded by the Department of the Interior. The amount of such payment for any fiscal year shall be 1.25 percent of the aggregate of the amount available to all States under this part for that fiscal year.
    (2) The Secretary of the Interior shall distribute the total amount of the 1.25 percent under paragraph (1) in the following manner:
      (A) For the first fiscal year, each tribe or tribal organization shall receive an amount proportionate to the amount of weighted student units for special education programs for BIA operated or funded schools serving such reservation generated under the formula established under section 2008 \1\N of title 25, divided by the total number of such students in all BIA operated or funded schools.
      (B) For each fiscal year thereafter, each tribe or tribal organization shall receive an amount based on the number of infants and toddlers residing on the reservation as determined annually divided by the total of such children served by all tribes or tribal organizations.
    (3) To receive a payment under this paragraph, the tribe or tribal organization shall submit such figures to the Secretary of the Interior as are needed to determine the amounts to be allocated under paragraph (2).
    (4) The funds received by a tribe or tribal organization shall be used to assist States in child find, screening, and other procedures for the early identification of Indian children aged 0–2, inclusive, and for parent training. Such funds may also be used to provide early intervention services in accordance with this subchapter. These activities may be carried out directly or through contracts or cooperative agreements with the BIA, local educational agencies, and other public or private nonprofit organizations. The tribe and tribal organization is encouraged to involve Indian parents in the development and implementation of these activities. The above entities shall, as appropriate, make referrals to local, State, or Federal entities for the provision of services or further diagnosis.
    (5) To be eligible to receive a grant pursuant to paragraph (2), the tribe or tribal organization shall make a biennial report to the Secretary of the Interior of activities undertaken under this subsection, including the number of contracts and cooperative agreements entered into, the number of children contacted and receiving services for each year, and the estimated number of children needing services during the 2 years following the one in which the report is made. The Secretary of the Interior shall include a summary of this information on a biennial basis to the Secretary of Education along with such other information as required under section 1411(f)(3)(D) of this title. The Secretary of Education may require any additional information from the Secretary of the Interior.
    (6) None of the funds under this subsection can be used by the Secretary of the Interior for administrative purposes, including child count, and the provision of technical assistance.
  (c) States
    (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) from the funds remaining for each fiscal year after the reservation and payments under subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary shall first allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount of such remainder as the number of infants and toddlers in the State bears to the number of infants and toddlers in all States.
    (2) For fiscal year 1995 only, the Secretary shall allot $34,000,000 of the remaining funds described in paragraph (1) among the States in proportion to their relative numbers of infants and toddlers with disabilities who–
      (A) are counted on December 1, 1994; and
      (B) would have been eligible to be counted under section 1221(c)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (as such section was in effect on the day preceding October 20, 1994).
    (3) Except as provided in paragraphs (4) and (5), no State shall receive an amount under this section for any fiscal year that is less than the greater of–
      (A) one-half of one percent of the remaining amount described in paragraph (1), excluding any amounts allotted under paragraph (2); or
      (B) $500,000.
    (4)      (A) Except as provided in paragraph (5), no State shall receive an amount under this section for any of the fiscal years 1995 through 1999 that is less than the sum of the amount such State received for fiscal year 1994 under–
        (i) this subchapter; and
        (ii) subpart 2 of part D of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (as such subpart was in existence on the day preceding October 20, 1994) for children with disabilities from birth through age 2.
      (B) If, for fiscal year 1998 or 1999, the number of infants and toddlers in any State, as determined under paragraph (1), is less than the number of infants and toddlers so determined for fiscal year 1994, the amount determined under subparagraph (A) for that State shall be reduced by the same percentage by which the number of those infants and toddlers so declined.
    (5)      (A) If the sums made available under this subchapter for any fiscal year are insufficient to pay the full amounts that all States are eligible to receive under this subsection for such year, the Secretary shall ratably reduce the allocations to such States for such year.
      (B) If additional funds become available for making payments under this subsection for such fiscal year, allocations that were reduced under subparagraph (A) shall be increased on the same basis as such allocations were reduced.
    (6) For the purpose of paragraph (1)–
      (A) the terms ””infants““ and ””toddlers““ mean children from birth to age 2, inclusive, and
      (B) the term ””State““ does not include the jurisdictions described in subsection (a) of this section.
  (d) Election by State not to receive allotment
     If any State elects not to receive its allotment under subsection (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall reallot, among the remaining States, amounts from such State in accordance with such subsection.
