   A State that desires to receive a grant under this subchapter shall submit an application to the Secretary that contains the following information and assurances:
  (1) Family-centered and family-directed approach
     An assurance that the State will use funds made available under this subchapter to accomplish the purposes described in section 1491a of this title and the goals, objectives, and family-centered outcomes described in section 1491h(b) of this title by carrying out systems change activities in partnership with families and in a manner that is family-centered and family-directed.
  (2) Designation of the lead entity
     Information identifying the lead entity, and evidence documenting the abilities of such entity.
  (3) State policy Council for families of children with disabilities
     An assurance of the following:
    (A) The State has designated or established Council \1\N that meets the criteria set forth in section 1491f of this title.
    (B) The lead entity will seek and consider on a regular and ongoing basis advice from the Council regarding the development and implementation of the strategic plan under section 1491h of this title, and other policies and procedures of general applicability pertaining to the provision of family support for families of children with disabilities in the State.
    (C) The lead entity will include, in its annual progress reports, a summary of advice provided by the Council, including recommendations from the annual report of the Council and the response of the lead entity to such advice and recommendations.
    (D) The lead entity will transmit to the Council any other plans, reports, and other information required under this subchapter.
  (4) Family involvement
     A description of the following:
    (A) The nature and extent of the involvement of families of children with disabilities and individuals with disabilities in the development of the application.
    (B) Strategies for actively involving families of children with disabilities and individuals with disabilities in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the statewide system of family support for families of children with disabilities.
    (C) Strategies and special outreach activities that will be undertaken to ensure the active involvement of families of children with disabilities who are members of unserved and underserved populations.
    (D) Strategies for actively involving families of children with disabilities who use family support services in decisions relating to such services.
  (5) Agency involvement
     A description of the nature and extent of involvement of various State agencies or units within State agencies in the preparation of the application and the continuing role of each agency in the statewide system of family support for families of children with disabilities.
  (6) State resources
     A description of the State resources and other resources that are available to commit to the statewide system of family support for families of children with disabilities.
  (7) Unmet needs
     A description of unmet needs for family support for families of children with disabilities within the State.
  (8) Preliminary plan
     A preliminary plan that contains information on the program to be carried out under the grant with respect to the goals and objectives of the State for the program and the activities that the State plans to carry out under the program (including the process for appointing individuals to the Council) and that is consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.
  (9) Activities
     An assurance that, except for the first year of the grant, the State shall expend not less than 65 percent of the funds made available to a State under this subchapter for grants and contracts to conduct the activities described in section 1491g of this title.
  (10) Limit on administrative costs
     An assurance that the lead entity that receives funding under this subchapter in any fiscal year shall use not more than 5 percent of such funds in such year for administrative expenses. Such administrative expenses shall not include expenses related to the activities of the Council.
  (11) Strategic plan
     A description of the measures that will be taken by the State to develop a strategic plan in accordance with section 1491h of this title.
  (12) Evaluation
     An assurance that the State will conduct an annual evaluation of the statewide system of family support for families of children with disabilities in accordance with section 1491i of this title.
  (13) Coordination with State and local councils
     An assurance that the lead entity will coordinate the activities funded through a grant made under this subchapter with the activities carried out by other relevant councils within the State.
  (14) Supplement other funds
     An assurance, with respect to amounts received under a grant, of the following:
    (A) Such grant will be used to supplement and not supplant amounts available from other sources that are expended for programs of family support for families of children with disabilities, including the provision of family support.
    (B) Such grant will not be used to pay a financial obligation for family support for families of children with disabilities that would have been paid with amounts available from other sources if amounts under such grant had not been available.
  (15) Other information and assurances
     Such other information and assurances as the Secretary may reasonably require.
