  (a) In general
     The Secretary shall make grants to States on a competitive basis, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, to support systems change activities designed to assist States to develop and implement, or expand and enhance, a statewide system of family support for families of children with disabilities that accomplishes the purposes described in section 1491a of this title.
  (b) Award period and grant limitation
     No grant shall be awarded for a period greater than 3 years. A State shall be eligible for not more than one grant.
  (c) Amount of grants
    (1) Grants to States
      (A) Federal matching share
         From amounts appropriated under section 1491T3oK(a) of this title, the Secretary shall pay to each State that has an application approved under section 1491d of this title, for each year of the grant period, an amount that is–
        (i) equal to 75 percent of the cost of the systems change activities to be carried out by the State; and
        (ii) not less than $200,000 and not more than $500,000.
      (B) Non-Federal share
         The non-Federal share of payments under this paragraph may be in cash or in kind fairly evaluated, including planned equipment or services.
    (2) Grants to territories
       From amounts appropriated under section 1491T3oK(a) of this title for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall pay to each territory that has an application approved under section 1491d of this title not more than $100,000.
    (3) Calculation of amounts
       The Secretary shall calculate a grant amount described in paragraph (1) or (2) on the basis of the following:
      (A) The amounts available for making grants under this section.
      (B) The child population of the State or territory concerned.
    (4) Definitions
       As used in this subsection:
      (A) State
         The term ””State““ means each of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
      (B) Territory
         The term ””territory““ means the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Republic of Palau (upon the entry into force and effect of the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Republic of Palau).
  (d) Priority for previously participating States
     Amounts appropriated for purposes of carrying out the provisions of this section in each of the 2 fiscal years succeeding the fiscal year in which amounts are first appropriated for such purposes shall first be made available to a State that–
    (1) received a grant under this section during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year concerned; and
    (2) is making significant progress in accordance with section 1491i of this title.
  (e) Priorities for distribution
     To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall award grants to States under this section in a manner that–
    (1) is geographically equitable; and
    (2) distributes the grants among States that have differing levels of development of statewide systems of family support for families of children with disabilities.
