  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the Harry S Truman Memorial Scholarship Trust Fund. The fund shall consist of amounts appropriated to it by section 2013 of this title.
  (b) Investment in interest bearing obligations
     It shall be the duty of the Secretary to invest in full the amounts appropriated to the fund. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be acquired (1) on original issue at the issue price, or (2) by purchase of outstanding obligations at the market place. The purposes for which obligations of the United States may be issued under chapter 31 of title 31, are hereby extended to authorize the issuance at par of special obligations exclusively to the fund. Such special obligations shall bear interest at a rate equal to the average rate of interest, computed as to the end of the calendar month next preceding the date of such issue, borne by all marketable interest-bearing obligations of the United States then forming a part of the public debt; except that where such average rate is not a multiple of one-eighth of 1 per centum, the rate of interest of such special obligations shall be the multiple of one-eighth of 1 per centum next lower than such average rate. Such special obligations shall be issued only if the Secretary determines that the purchase of other interest-bearing obligations of the United States, or of obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the United States or original issue or at the market price, is not in the public interest.
  (c) Sale and redemption of obligations
     Any obligation acquired by the fund (except special obligations issued exclusively to the fund) may be sold by the Secretary at the market price, and such special obligations may be redeemed at par plus accrued interest.
  (d) Credit to the fund of interest and proceeds of sale or redemption
     The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the fund shall be credited to and form a part of the fund.
