  (a) In general
    (1) For the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1979, and each fiscal year thereafter, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the Treasury for the United States Customs Service only such sums as may hereafter be authorized by law.
    (2) The authorization of the appropriations for the United States Customs Service for each fiscal year after fiscal year 1987 shall specify–
      (A) the amount authorized for the fiscal year for the salaries and expenses of the Service in conducting commercial operations; and
      (B) the amount authorized for the fiscal year for the salaries and expenses of the Service for other than commercial operations.
  (b) Authorization of appropriations
    (1) For noncommercial operations
       There are authorized to be appropriated for the salaries and expenses of the Customs Service that are incurred in noncommercial operations not to exceed the following:
      (A) $516,217,000 for fiscal year 1991.
      (B) $542,091,000 for fiscal year 1992.
    (2) For commercial operations
      (A) There are authorized to be appropriated for the salaries and expenses of the Customs Service that are incurred in commercial operations not less than the following:
        (i) $672,021,000 for fiscal year 1991.
        (ii) $705,793,000 for fiscal year 1992.
      (B) The monies authorized to be appropriated under subparagraph (A) for any fiscal year, except for such sums as may be necessary for the salaries and expenses of the Customs Service that are incurred in connection with the processing of merchandise that is exempt from the fees imposed under section 58c(a)(9) and (10) of this title, shall be appropriated from the Customs User Fee Account.
    (3) For air interdiction
       There are authorized to be appropriated for the operation (including salaries and expenses) and maintenance of the air interdiction program of the Customs Service not to exceed the following:
      (A) $143,047,000 for fiscal year 1991.
      (B) $150,199,000 for fiscal year 1992.
  (c) Mandatory 10-day deferment
     No part of any sum that is appropriated under the authority of subsection (b) of this section may be used to implement any procedure relating to the time of collection of estimated duties that shortens the maximum 10-day deferment procedure in effect on January 1, 1981.
  (d) Overtime pay limitations; waiver
     No part of any sum that is appropriated under subsection (b) of this section for fiscal years after September 30, 1984, may be used for administrative expenses to pay any employee of the United States Customs Service overtime pay in an amount exceeding $25,000; except that the Commissioner of Customs or his designee may waive this limitation in individual cases in order to prevent excessive costs or to meet emergency requirements of the Service.
  (e) Pay comparability authorization
     For the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1982, and for each fiscal year thereafter, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the Treasury for salaries of the United States Customs Service such additional sums as may be provided by law to reflect pay rate changes made in accordance with the Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970.
  (f) Use of savings resulting from administrative consolidations
     If savings in salaries and expenses result from the consolidation of administrative functions within the Customs Service, the Commissioner of Customs shall apply those savings, to the extent they are not needed to meet emergency requirements of the Service, to strengthening the commercial operations of the Service by increasing the number of inspector, import specialist, patrol officer, and other line operational positions.
  (g) Allocation of resources; notice to Congressional committees
    (1) The Commissioner of Customs shall ensure that existing levels of commercial services, including inspection and control, classification, and value, shall continue to be provided by Customs personnel assigned to the headquarters office of any Customs district designated by statute before April 7, 1986. The number of such personnel assigned to any such district headquarters shall not be reduced through attrition or otherwise, and such personnel shall be afforded the opportunity to maintain their proficiency through training and workshops to the same extent provided to Customs personnel in any other district. Automation and other modernization equipment shall be made available, as needed on a timely basis, to such headquarters to the same extent as such equipment is made available to any other district headquarters.
    (2) The Commissioner of Customs shall notify the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives at least 180 days prior to taking any action which would–
      (A) result in any significant reduction in force of employees other than by means of attrition;
      (B) result in any significant reduction in hours of operation or services rendered at any office of the United States Customs Service or any port of entry;
      (C) eliminate or relocate any office of the United States Customs Service;
      (D) eliminate any port of entry; or
      (E) significantly reduce the number of employees assigned to any office of the United States Customs Service or any port of entry.
    (3) The total number of employees of the United States Customs Service shall be equivalent to at least 17,174 full-time employees.
