   The Secretary shall make available, directly or through agreements with States under section 2311 of this title, to adversely affected workers and adversely affected incumbent workers covered by a certification under subpart A of this part the following employment and case management services:
  (1) Comprehensive and specialized assessment of skill levels and service needs, including through–
    (A) diagnostic testing and use of other assessment tools; and
    (B) in-depth interviewing and evaluation to identify employment barriers and appropriate employment goals.
  (2) Development of an individual employment plan to identify employment goals and objectives, and appropriate training to achieve those goals and objectives.
  (3) Information on training available in local and regional areas, information on individual counseling to determine which training is suitable training, and information on how to apply for such training.
  (4) Information on how to apply for financial aid, including referring workers to educational opportunity centers described in section 402F of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a–16), where applicable, and notifying workers that the workers may request financial aid administrators at institutions of higher education (as defined in section 102 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1002)) to use the administrators“ discretion under section 479A of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1087tt) to use current year income data, rather than preceding year income data, for determining the amount of need of the workers for Federal financial assistance under title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
  (5) Short-term prevocational services, including development of learning skills, communications skills, interviewing skills, punctuality, personal maintenance skills, and professional conduct to prepare individuals for employment or training.
  (6) Individual career counseling, including job search and placement counseling, during the period in which the individual is receiving a trade adjustment allowance or training under this part, and after receiving such training for purposes of job placement.
  (7) Provision of employment statistics information, including the provision of accurate information relating to local, regional, and national labor market areas, including–
    (A) job vacancy listings in such labor market areas;
    (B) information on jobs skills necessary to obtain jobs identified in job vacancy listings described in subparagraph (A);
    (C) information relating to local occupations that are in demand and earnings potential of such occupations; and
    (D) skills requirements for local occupations described in subparagraph (C).
  (8) Information relating to the availability of supportive services, including services relating to child care, transportation, dependent care, housing assistance, and need-related payments that are necessary to enable an individual to participate in training.
