  (a) Study of training and housing needs
    (1) The Secretary shall conduct a detailed study of the training and housing needs of each institution eligible under this part.
    (2) The study required by paragraph (1) shall include an examination of–
      (A) training equipment needs; and
      (B) housing needs of families whose heads of household are students and whose dependents have no alternate source of support while such heads of household are students.
    (3) The Secretary shall report to the Congress not later than July 1, 1991, on the results of the study required by paragraph (1).
    (4) The report required by paragraph (3) shall–
      (A) include the number, type, and cost of meeting the needs described in paragraph (2); and
      (B) rank each institution by relative need.
    (5) In conducting the study required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to institutions which are receiving assistance under this part.
  (b) Long-term study of facilities
    (1) The Secretary shall provide for the conduct of a long-term study of facilities of each institution eligible for assistance under this part.
    (2) The study required by paragraph (1) shall include a 5-year projection of training facilities and equipment and housing needs and shall consider such factors as projected service population, employment and economic development forecasting, based on the most current and accurate data available from the institutions and Indian tribes affected.
    (3) The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a detailed report on the results of such study not later than the end of the 18-month period beginning on September 25, 1990.
    (4) The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a progress report not less often than once every 6 months, beginning on September 25, 1990, concerning activities conducted pursuant to this section.
  (c) Construction and renovation grants
     Pursuant to the studies conducted and the report submitted under subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary is authorized to make grants to the tribally controlled vocational institutions for construction, rehabilitation, major alterations and renovation of buildings and other physical structures for the conduct of programs funded under this part. Such grants shall be made in such time and pursuant to such applications as the Secretary shall by regulation determine.
