  (a) Information dissemination
     The Secretary is authorized to disseminate information and exemplary materials regarding effective vocational education.
  (b) Standards of excellence
    (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the National Center or Centers for Research in Vocational Education (in this section referred to as the ””National Center or Centers for Research““), the National Diffusion Network, and the Blue Ribbon Schools Program, is authorized to carry out programs to recognize secondary and postsecondary schools or programs which have established standards of excellence in vocational education and which have demonstrated a high level of quality. Such schools and programs shall be known as ””Blue Ribbon Vocational Programs““. The Secretary shall competitively select schools and programs to be recognized from among public and private schools or programs within the States and schools funded by the Department of the Interior.
    (2) In the case of a private school or vocational education program that is designated as a Blue Ribbon Vocational Education Program, the Secretary shall make suitable arrangements to provide the award to such school.
  (c) Awards
    (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the National Center or Centers for Research and the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee (in this section referred to as the ””Committee““), is authorized to designate each fiscal year a category or several categories of vocational education, which may include tech-prep education, in which Blue Ribbon Vocational Education Program awards will be named. Such categories shall emphasize the expansion or strengthening of the participation of individuals who are members of special populations and may give special consideration to any of the following:
      (A) program improvement;
      (B) academic and occupational competencies; and
      (C) other categories determined by the Secretary in consultation with the National Center or Centers for Research and the Committee.
    (2) Within each category, the Secretary shall determine the criteria and procedures for selection. Selection for such awards shall be based solely on merit. Schools or programs selected for awards under this section shall not be required to be representative of the States.
  (d) Consultation
    (1) The Secretary shall carry out the provisions of this section, including the establishment of the selection procedures, after consultation with appropriate outside parties.
    (2) No award may be made under this section unless the local educational agency, area vocational education school, intermediate educational agency, tribal authority, Bureau of Indian Affairs, or appropriate State agency with jurisdiction over the school or program involved submits an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
