  (a) Overtime pay
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2) and subsection (c) of this section, a customs officer who is officially assigned to perform work in excess of 40 hours in the administrative workweek of the officer or in excess of 8 hours in a day shall be compensated for that work at an hourly rate of pay that is equal to 2 times the hourly rate of the basic pay of the officer. For purposes of this paragraph, the hourly rate of basic pay for a customs officer does not include any premium pay provided for under subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) Special provisions relating to overtime work on callback basis
      (A) Minimum duration
         Any work for which compensation is authorized under paragraph (1) and for which the customs officer is required to return to the officer“s place of work shall be treated as being not less than 2 hours in duration; but only if such work begins at least 1 hour after the end of any previous regularly scheduled work assignment and ends at least 1 hour before the beginning of the following regularly scheduled work assignment.
      (B) Compensation for commuting time
        (i) In general
           Except as provided in clause (ii), in addition to the compensation authorized under paragraph (1) for work to which subparagraph (A) applies, the customs officer is entitled to be paid, as compensation for commuting time, an amount equal to 3 times the hourly rate of basic pay of the officer.
        (ii) Exception
           Compensation for commuting time is not payable under clause (i) if the work for which compensation is authorized under paragraph (1)–
          (I) does not commence within 16 hours of the customs officer“s last regularly scheduled work assignment, or
          (II) commences within 2 hours of the next regularly scheduled work assignment of the customs officer.
  (b) Premium pay for customs officers
    (1) Night work differential
      (A) 3 p.m. to midnight shiftwork
         If the majority of the hours of regularly scheduled work of a customs officer occurs during the period beginning at 3 p.m. and ending at 12 a.m., the officer is entitled to pay for work during such period (except for work to which paragraph (2) or (3) applies) at the officer“s hourly rate of basic pay plus premium pay amounting to 15 percent of that basic rate.
      (B) 11 p.m. to 8 a.m. shiftwork
         If the majority of the hours of regularly scheduled work of a customs officer occurs during the period beginning at 11 p.m. and ending at 8 a.m., the officer is entitled to pay for work during such period (except for work to which paragraph (2) or (3) applies) at the officer“s hourly rate of basic pay plus premium pay amounting to 20 percent of that basic rate.
      (C) 7:30 p.m. to 3:30 a.m. shiftwork
         If the regularly scheduled work assignment of a customs officer is 7:30 p.m. to 3:30 a.m., the officer is entitled to pay for work during such period (except for work to which paragraph (2) or (3) applies) at the officer“s hourly rate of basic pay plus premium pay amounting to 15 percent of that basic rate for the period from 7:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. and at the officer“s hourly rate of basic pay plus premium pay amounting to 20 percent of that basic rate for the period from 11:30 p.m. to 3:30 a.m.
    (2) Sunday differential
       A customs officer who performs any regularly scheduled work on a Sunday that is not a holiday is entitled to pay for that work at the officer“s hourly rate of basic pay plus premium pay amounting to 50 percent of that basic rate.
    (3) Holiday differential
       A customs officer who performs any regularly scheduled work on a holiday is entitled to pay for that work at the officer“s hourly rate of basic pay plus premium pay amounting to 100 percent of that basic rate.
    (4) Treatment of premium pay
       Premium pay provided for under this subsection may not be treated as being overtime pay or compensation for any purpose.
  (c) Limitations
    (1) Fiscal year cap
       The aggregate of overtime pay under subsection (a) of this section (including commuting compensation under subsection (a)(2)(B) of this section) and premium pay under subsection (b) of this section that a customs officer may be paid in any fiscal year may not exceed $25,000; except that the Commissioner of Customs or his designee may waive this limitation in individual cases in order to prevent excessive costs or to meet emergency requirements of the Customs Service.
    (2) Exclusivity of pay under this section
       A customs officer who receives overtime pay under subsection (a) of this section or premium pay under subsection (b) of this section for time worked may not receive pay or other compensation for that work under any other provision of law.
  (d) Regulations
     The Secretary of the Treasury shall promulgate regulations to prevent–
    (1) abuse of callback work assignments and commuting time compensation authorized under subsection (a)(2) of this section; and
    (2) the disproportionately more frequent assignment of overtime work to customs officers who are near to retirement.
  (e) Definitions
     As used in this section:
    (1) The term ””customs officer““ means an individual performing those functions specified by regulation by the Secretary of the Treasury for a customs inspector or canine enforcement officer. Such functions shall be consistent with such applicable standards as may be promulgated by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (2) The term ””holiday““ means any day designated as a holiday under a Federal statute or Executive order.
