  (a) Study
     By not later than July 1, 1997, the President shall provide to the Congress a comprehensive study on the operation and effects of the Agreement. The study shall include an assessment of the following factors:
    (1) The net effect of the Agreement on the economy of the United States, including with respect to the United States gross national product, employment, balance of trade, and current account balance.
    (2) The industries (including agricultural industries) in the United States that have significantly increased exports to Mexico or Canada as a result of the Agreement, or in which imports into the United States from Mexico or Canada have increased significantly as a result of the Agreement, and the extent of any change in the wages, employment, or productivity in each such industry as a result of the Agreement.
    (3) The extent to which investment in new or existing production or other operations in the United States has been redirected to Mexico as a result of the Agreement, and the effect on United States employment of such redirection.
    (4) The extent of any increase in investment, including foreign direct investment and increased investment by United States investors, in new or existing production or other operations in the United States as a result of the Agreement, and the effect on United States employment of such investment.
    (5) The extent to which the Agreement has contributed to–
      (A) improvement in real wages and working conditions in Mexico,
      (B) effective enforcement of labor and environmental laws in Mexico, and
      (C) the reduction or abatement of pollution in the region of the United States-Mexico border.
  (b) Scope
     In assessing the factors listed in subsection (a) of this section, to the extent possible, the study shall distinguish between the consequences of the Agreement and events that likely would have occurred without the Agreement. In addition, the study shall evaluate the effects of the Agreement relative to aggregate economic changes and, to the extent possible, relative to the effects of other factors, including–
    (1) international competition,
    (2) reductions in defense spending,
    (3) the shift from traditional manufacturing to knowledge and information based economic activity, and
    (4) the Federal debt burden.
  (c) Recommendations of President
     The study shall include any appropriate recommendations by the President with respect to the operation and effects of the Agreement, including recommendations with respect to the specific factors listed in subsection (a) of this section.
  (d) Recommendations of certain committees
     The President shall provide the study to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate and any other committee that has jurisdiction over any provision of United States law that was either enacted or amended by the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act. Each such committee may hold hearings and make recommendations to the President with respect to the operation and effects of the Agreement.
