   For purposes of this part:
  (1) Administering authority
     The term ””administering authority““ has the meaning given that term in section 1677(1) of this title.
  (2) Appellate Body
     The term ””Appellate Body““ means the Appellate Body established under Article 17.1 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding.
  (3) Appropriate congressional committees; congressional committees
    (A) Appropriate congressional committees
       The term ””appropriate congressional committees““ means the committees referred to in subparagraph (B) and any other committees of the Congress that have jurisdiction involving the matter with respect to which consultations are to be held.
    (B) Congressional committees
       The term ””congressional committees““ means the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
  (4) Dispute settlement panel; panel
     The terms ””dispute settlement panel““ and ””panel““ mean a panel established pursuant to Article 6 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding.
  (5) Dispute Settlement Body
     The term ””Dispute Settlement Body““ means the Dispute Settlement Body administering the rules and procedures set forth in the Dispute Settlement Understanding.
  (6) Dispute Settlement Understanding
     The term ””Dispute Settlement Understanding““ means the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes referred to in section 3511(d)(16) of this title.
  (7) General Council
     The term ””General Council““ means the General Council established under paragraph 2 of Article IV of the WTO Agreement.
  (8) Ministerial Conference
     The term ””Ministerial Conference““ means the Ministerial Conference established under paragraph 1 of Article IV of the WTO Agreement.
  (9) Other terms
     The terms ””Antidumping Agreement““, ””Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures““, and ””Safeguards Agreement““ mean the agreements referred to in section 3511(d)(7), (12), and (13) of this title, respectively.
