  (a) Declaration of policy
     Congress declares that free trade agreements should be negotiated, where feasible, with interested countries in sub-Saharan Africa, in order to serve as the catalyst for increasing trade between the United States and sub-Saharan Africa and increasing private sector investment in sub-Saharan Africa.
  (b) Plan requirement
    (1) In general
       The President, taking into account the provisions of the treaty establishing the African Economic Community and the willingness of the governments of sub-Saharan African countries to engage in negotiations to enter into free trade agreements, shall develop a plan for the purpose of negotiating and entering into one or more trade agreements with interested beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries.
    (2) Elements of plan
       The plan shall include the following:
      (A) The specific objectives of the United States with respect to negotiations described in paragraph (1) and a suggested timetable for achieving those objectives.
      (B) The benefits to both the United States and the relevant sub-Saharan African countries with respect to the applicable free trade agreement or agreements.
      (C) A mutually agreed-upon timetable for the negotiations.
      (D) The implications for and the role of regional and sub-regional organizations in sub-Saharan Africa with respect to such free trade agreement or agreements.
      (E) Subject matter anticipated to be covered by the negotiations and United States laws, programs, and policies, as well as the laws of participating eligible African countries and existing bilateral and multilateral and economic cooperation and trade agreements, that may be affected by the agreement or agreements.
      (F) Procedures to ensure the following:
        (i) Adequate consultation with the Congress and the private sector during the negotiations.
        (ii) Consultation with the Congress regarding all matters relating to implementation of the agreement or agreements.
        (iii) Approval by the Congress of the agreement or agreements.
        (iv) Adequate consultations with the relevant African governments and African regional and subregional intergovernmental organizations during the negotiation of the agreement or agreements.
  (c) Reporting requirement
     Not later than 12 months after May 18, 2000, the President shall prepare and transmit to the Congress a report containing the plan developed pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
