  (a) Amount; availability until expended
    (1) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the asbestos abatement program not more than $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995. In addition, for such purposes and for each of such fiscal years there are authorized to be appropriated out of the Asbestos Trust Fund established by section 4022 of this title such sums as are contained in such trust fund in each of such fiscal years.
    (2) The sums appropriated under this subchapter shall remain available until expended.
  (b) Minimum State amount; fiscal year obligation requirement; reserved funds for administration and asbestos abatement oriented program expenditures; appropriations out of Asbestos Trust Fund
    (1) A State with qualified applicants shall receive no less than one-half of 1 per centum of the sums appropriated under this subchapter or the total of the amounts requested by such applicants, whichever is less. Those amounts available in each fiscal year under this paragraph shall be obligated before the end of that fiscal year. For the purposes of this paragraph the term ””State““ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and, taken together, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
    (2) Of those sums appropriated for the implementation of this subchapter, not more than 5 percent may be reserved during each fiscal year for the administration of this subchapter and for programs including (but not limited to) the following:
      (A) The establishment of training centers for contractors, engineers, school employees, parents, and other personnel to provide instruction, in accordance with title II of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2641 et seq.), on asbestos assessment and abatement.
      (B) The development and dissemination of abatement guidance documents to assist in evaluation of potential hazards and the determination of proper abatement programs.
      (C) The development of rules and regulations regarding inspection, reporting, and recordkeeping.
      (D) The development of a comprehensive testing and technical assistance program.
    (3) Of those sums appropriated for any fiscal year for the implementation of this subchapter, the Administrator may use not more than 5 percent to provide grants to States for the following purposes:
      (A) Assisting local educational agencies in performing the periodic reinspections and training activities required under title II of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2641 et seq.).
      (B) Establishing and maintaining programs to accredit personnel performing asbestos inspections and response actions.
