  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the executive branch a National Education Goals Panel (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””Goals Panel““) to advise the President, the Secretary, and the Congress.
  (b) Composition
     The Goals Panel shall be composed of 18 members (hereafter in this part referred to as ””members““), including–
    (1) 2 members appointed by the President;
    (2) 8 members who are Governors, 3 of whom shall be from the same political party as the President and 5 of whom shall be from the opposite political party of the President, appointed by the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the National Governors“ Association, with the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson each appointing representatives of such Chairperson“s or Vice Chairperson“s respective political party, in consultation with each other;
    (3) 4 Members of the Congress, of whom–
      (A) 1 member shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate from among the Members of the Senate;
      (B) 1 member shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate from among the Members of the Senate;
      (C) 1 member shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives from among the Members of the House of Representatives; and
      (D) 1 member shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives from among the Members of the House of Representatives; and
    (4) 4 members of State legislatures appointed by the President of the National Conference of State Legislatures, of whom 2 shall be of the same political party as the President of the United States.
  (c) Special appointment rules
    (1) In general
       The members appointed pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of this section shall be appointed as follows:
      (A) If the Chairperson of the National Governors“ Association is from the same political party as the President, the Chairperson shall appoint 3 individuals and the Vice Chairperson of such association shall appoint 5 individuals.
      (B) If the Chairperson of the National Governors“ Association is from the opposite political party as the President, the Chairperson shall appoint 5 individuals and the Vice Chairperson of such association shall appoint 3 individuals.
    (2) Special rule
       If the National Governors“ Association has appointed a panel that meets the requirements of subsections (b) and (c) of this section, except for the requirements of paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this section, prior to March 31, 1994, then the members serving on such panel shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of such subsections and shall not be required to be reappointed pursuant to such subsections.
    (3) Representation
       To the extent feasible, the membership of the Goals Panel shall be geographically representative and reflect the racial, ethnic, and gender diversity of the United States.
  (d) Terms
     The terms of service of members shall be as follows:
    (1) Presidential appointees
       Members appointed under subsection (b)(1) of this section shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
    (2) Governors
       Members appointed under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this section shall serve for 2-year terms, except that the initial appointments under such paragraph shall be made to ensure staggered terms with one-half of such members“ terms concluding every 2 years.
    (3) Congressional appointees and State legislators
       Members appointed under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b) of this section shall serve for 2-year terms.
  (e) Date of appointment
     The initial members shall be appointed not later than 60 days after March 31, 1994.
  (f) Initiation
     The Goals Panel may begin to carry out its duties under this part when 10 members of the Goals Panel have been appointed.
  (g) Vacancies
     A vacancy on the Goals Panel shall not affect the powers of the Goals Panel, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
  (h) Travel
     Each member may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5 for each day the member is engaged in the performance of duties for the Goals Panel away from the home or regular place of business of the member.
    (i) Chairperson
      (1) In general
         The members shall select a Chairperson from among the members.
      (2) Term and political affiliation
         The Chairperson of the Goals Panel shall serve a 1-year term and shall alternate between political parties.
    (j) Conflict of interest
       A member of the Goals Panel who is an elected official of a State which has developed content or student performance standards may not participate in Goals Panel consideration of such standards.
    (k) Ex officio member
       If the President has not appointed the Secretary as 1 of the 2 members the President appoints pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of this section, then the Secretary shall serve as a nonvoting ex officio member of the Goals Panel.
