  (a) Findings
     The Congress finds as follows:
    (1) Congress is interested in promoting State and local government reform efforts in education.
    (2) In Public Law 96–88 [20 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.] the Congress found that education is fundamental to the development of individual citizens and the progress of the Nation.
    (3) In Public Law 96–88 the Congress found that in our Federal system the responsibility for education is reserved respectively to the States and the local school systems and other instrumentalities of the States.
    (4) In Public Law 96–88 the Congress declared the purpose of the Department of Education was to supplement and complement the efforts of States, the local school systems, and other instrumentalities of the States, the private sector, public and private educational institutions, public and private nonprofit educational research institutions, community based organizations, parents and schools to improve the quality of education.
    (5) With the establishment of the Department of Education, Congress intended to protect the rights of State and local governments and public and private educational institutions in the areas of educational policies and administration of programs and to strengthen and improve the control of such governments and institutions over their own educational programs and policies.
    (6) Public Law 96–88 specified that the establishment of the Department of Education shall not increase the authority of the Federal Government over education or diminish the responsibility for education which is reserved to the States and local school systems and other instrumentalities of the States.
    (7) Public Law 96–88 specified that no provision of a program administered by the Secretary or by any other officer of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare \1\N shall be construed to authorize the Secretary or any such officer to exercise any direction, supervision, or control over the curriculum, program of instruction, administration, or personnel of any educational institution, school, or school system, over any accrediting agency or association or over the selection or content of library resources, textbooks, or other instructional materials by any educational institution or school system.
  (b) Reaffirmation
     The Congress agrees and reaffirms that the responsibility for control of education is reserved to the States and local school systems and other instrumentalities of the States and that no action shall be taken under the provisions of this chapter by the Federal Government which would, directly or indirectly, impose standards or requirements of any kind through the promulgation of rules, regulations, provision of financial assistance and otherwise, which would reduce, modify, or undercut State and local responsibility for control of education.
