  (a) Study required
    (1) In general
       Not later than 180 days after March 31, 1994, the Secretary shall make appropriate arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences or the National Academy of Education to conduct a comprehensive study of the inclusion of children with disabilities in school reform activities assisted under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.].
    (2) ””Children with disabilities““ defined
       For purposes of this section, the term ””children with disabilities““ has the same meaning given such term in section 1401 \1\N of this title.
  (b) Study components
     The study conducted under subsection (a) of this section shall include–
    (1) an evaluation of the National Education Goals and objectives, curriculum reforms, standards, and other programs and activities intended to achieve those goals;
    (2) a review of the adequacy of assessments and measures used to gauge progress towards meeting National Education Goals and any national and State standards, and an examination of other methods or accommodations necessary or desirable to collect data on the educational progress of children with disabilities, and the costs of such methods and accommodations;
    (3) an examination of what incentives or assistance might be provided to States to develop improvement plans that adequately address the needs of children with disabilities;
    (4) the relation of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.] to other Federal laws governing or affecting the education of children with disabilities; and
    (5) such other issues as the National Academy of Sciences or the National Academy of Education considers appropriate.
  (c) Study panel membership
     Any panel constituted in furtherance of the study to be conducted under subsection (a) of this section shall include consumer representatives.
  (d) Findings and recommendations
     The Secretary shall request the National Academy of Sciences or the National Academy of Education to submit an interim report of its findings and recommendations to the President and Congress not later than 12 months, and a final report not later than 24 months, from the date of the completion of procurement relating to the study.
  (e) Funding
     From funds appropriated to the Secretary for research related to individuals with disabilities the Secretary shall make available $600,000 for fiscal year 1994, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1995, to carry out this section. Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain available until expended.
