   As used in this chapter:
  (1) All aspects of an industry
     The term ””all aspects of an industry““ means all aspects of the industry or industry sector a student is preparing to enter, including planning, management, finances, technical and production skills, underlying principles of technology, labor and community issues, health and safety issues, and environmental issues, related to such industry or industry sector.
  (2) All students
     The term ””all students““ means both male and female students from a broad range of backgrounds and circumstances, including disadvantaged students, students with diverse racial, ethnic, or cultural backgrounds, American Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, students with disabilities, students with limited-English proficiency, migrant children, school dropouts, and academically talented students.
  (3) Approved State plan
     The term ””approved State plan““ means a statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system plan that is submitted by a State under section 6143 of this title, is determined by the Secretaries to include the program components described in sections 6112 through 6114 of this title and otherwise meet the requirements of this chapter, and is consistent with the State improvement plan for the State, if any, under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.].
  (4) Career guidance and counseling
     The term ””career guidance and counseling““ means programs–
    (A) that pertain to the body of subject matter and related techniques and methods organized for the development in individuals of career awareness, career planning, career decisionmaking, placement skills, and knowledge and understanding of local, State, and national occupational, educational, and labor market needs, trends, and opportunities;
    (B) that assist individuals in making and implementing informed educational and occupational choices; and
    (C) that aid students to develop career options with attention to surmounting gender, race, ethnic, disability, language, or socioeconomic impediments to career options and encouraging careers in nontraditional employment.
  (5) Career major
     The term ””career major““ means a coherent sequence of courses or field of study that prepares a student for a first job and that–
    (A) integrates academic and occupational learning, integrates school-based and work-based learning, establishes linkages between secondary schools and postsecondary educational institutions;
    (B) prepares the student for employment in a broad occupational cluster or industry sector;
    (C) typically includes at least 2 years of secondary education and at least 1 or 2 years of postsecondary education;
    (D) provides the students, to the extent practicable, with strong experience in and understanding of all aspects of the industry the students are planning to enter;
    (E) results in the award of–
      (i) a high school diploma or its equivalent, such as–
        (I) a general equivalency diploma; or
        (II) an alternative diploma or certificate for students with disabilities for whom such alternative diploma or certificate is appropriate;
      (ii) a certificate or diploma recognizing successful completion of 1 or 2 years of postsecondary education (if appropriate); and
      (iii) a skill certificate; and
    (F) may lead to further education and training, such as entry into a registered apprenticeship program, or may lead to admission to a 2- or 4-year college or university.
  (6) Community-based organizations
     The term ””community-based organizations““ has the meaning given such term in section 4(5) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(5)).
  (7) Elementary school
     The term ””elementary school““ means a day or residential school that provides elementary education, as determined under State law.
  (8) Employer
     The term ””employer““ includes both public and private employers.
  (9) Governor
     The term ””Governor““ means the chief executive of a State.
  (10) Local educational agency
     The term ””local educational agency““ means a public board of education or other public authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service function for, public elementary or secondary schools in a city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or such combination of school districts or counties as are recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public elementary or secondary schools. Such term includes any other public institution or agency having administrative control and direction of a public elementary or secondary school.
  (11) Local partnership
     The term ””local partnership““ means a local entity that is responsible for local School-to-Work Opportunities programs and that–
    (A) consists of employers, representatives of local educational agencies and local postsecondary educational institutions (including representatives of area vocational education schools, where applicable), local educators (such as teachers, counselors, or administrators), representatives of labor organizations or nonmanagerial employee representatives, and students; and
    (B) may include other entities, such as–
      (i) employer organizations;
      (ii) community-based organizations;
      (iii) national trade associations working at the local levels;
      (iv) industrial extension centers;
      (v) rehabilitation agencies and organizations;
      (vi) registered apprenticeship agencies;
      (vii) local vocational education entities;
      (viii) proprietary institutions of higher education (as defined in section 481(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088(b)) that continue to meet the eligibility and certification requirements under title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq. [and 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.]);
      (ix) local government agencies;
      (x) parent organizations;
      (xi) teacher organizations;
      (xii) vocational student organizations;
      (xiii) private industry councils established under section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1512);
      (xiv) federally recognized Indian tribes, Indian organizations, and Alaska Native villages within the meaning of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); and
      (xv) Native Hawaiian entities.
  (12) Postsecondary educational institution
     The term ””postsecondary educational institution““ means an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 481 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088)) which continues to meet the eligibility and certification requirements under title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq. [and 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.]).
  (13) Registered apprenticeship agency
     The term ””registered apprenticeship agency““ means the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training in the Department of Labor or a State apprenticeship agency recognized and approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training as the appropriate body for State registration or approval of local apprenticeship programs and agreements for Federal purposes.
  (14) Registered apprenticeship program
     The term ””registered apprenticeship program““ means a program registered by a registered apprenticeship agency.
  (15) Related services
     The term ””related services““ includes the types of services described in section 1401(a)(17) of title 20.
  (16) Rural community with low population density
     The term ””rural community with low population density““ means a county, block number area in a nonmetropolitan county, or consortium of counties or of such block number areas, that has a population density of 20 or fewer individuals per square mile.
  (17) School dropout
     The term ””school dropout““ means a youth who is no longer attending any school and who has not received a secondary school diploma or a certificate from a program of equivalency for such a diploma.
  (18) School site mentor
     The term ””school site mentor““ means a professional employed at a school who is designated as the advocate for a particular student, and who works in consultation with classroom teachers, counselors, related services personnel, and the employer of the student to design and monitor the progress of the School-to-Work Opportunities program of the student.
  (19) School-to-Work Opportunities program
     The term ””School-to-Work Opportunities program““ means a program that meets the requirements of this chapter, other than a program described in section 6191(a) of this title.
  (20) Secondary school
     The term ””secondary school““ means–
    (A) a nonprofit day or residential school that provides secondary education, as determined under State law, except that it does not include any education provided beyond grade 12; and
    (B) a Job Corps center under part B of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.).
  (21) Secretaries
     The term ””Secretaries““ means the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Labor.
  (22) Skill certificate
     The term ””skill certificate““ means a portable, industry-recognized credential issued by a School-to-Work Opportunities program under an approved State plan, that certifies that a student has mastered skills at levels that are at least as challenging as skill standards endorsed by the National Skill Standards Board established under the National Skill Standards Act of 1994 [20 U.S.C. 5931 et seq.], except that until such skill standards are developed, the term ””skill certificate““ means a credential issued under a process described in the approved State plan.
  (23) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau.
  (24) State educational agency
     The term ””State educational agency““ means the officer or agency primarily responsible for the State supervision of public elementary and secondary schools.
  (25) Workplace mentor
     The term ””workplace mentor““ means an employee or other individual, approved by the employer at a workplace, who possesses the skills and knowledge to be mastered by a student, and who instructs the student, critiques the performance of the student, challenges the student to perform well, and works in consultation with classroom teachers and the employer of the student.
