  (a) State request for waiver
     A State may submit to the Secretaries a request for a waiver of 1 or more requirements of the provisions of law referred to in sections 6212 and 6213 of this title, or of the regulations issued under such provisions, in order to carry out the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system established by such State under part B of subchapter II of this chapter. The State may submit the request as a part of the application described in section 6143 of this title (or as an amendment to the application at any time after submission of the application). Such request may include a request for different waivers with respect to different areas within the State.
  (b) Local partnership request for waiver
    (1) In general
       A local partnership that seeks a waiver of such a requirement shall submit an application for such waiver to the State, and the State shall determine whether to submit a request for a waiver to the Secretaries, as provided in subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) Time limit
      (A) In general
         The State shall make a determination to submit or not submit the request for a waiver under paragraph (1) not later than 30 days after the date on which the State receives the application from the local partnership.
      (B) Direct submission
        (i) In general
           If the State does not make a determination to submit or not submit the request within the 30-day time period specified in subparagraph (A), the local partnership may submit the application to the Secretaries.
        (ii) Requirements
           In submitting such an application, the local partnership shall obtain the agreement of the State involved to comply with the requirements of section 6212(a)(1)(C) or 6213(a)(1)(C) of this title, as appropriate, and comply with the other requirements of section 6212 or 6213 of this title, as appropriate, and of subsections (c) and (d) of this section, that would otherwise apply to a State submitting a request for a waiver. In reviewing such an application, the Secretaries shall comply with the requirements of such section and such subsections that would otherwise apply to the Secretaries with respect to review of such a request.
  (c) Waiver criteria
     Any such request by the State shall meet the criteria contained in section 6212 or 6213 of this title and shall specify the provisions or regulations referred to in such sections with respect to which the State seeks a waiver.
  (d) Support by appropriate State agencies
     In requesting such a waiver, the State shall provide evidence of support for the waiver request by the State agencies or officials with jurisdiction over the provisions or regulations that would be waived.
