  (a) Findings
     Congress finds the following:
    (1) A large percentage of youth in the juvenile justice system have poor academic achievement, are a year or more behind grade level, and have dropped out of school.
    (2) There is a strong correlation between academic failure and involvement in delinquent activities.
    (3) Preventing students from dropping out of local schools and addressing the educational needs of delinquent youth can help reduce the dropout rate and involvement in delinquent activities at the same time.
    (4) Many schools and correctional facilities fail to communicate regarding a youth“s academic needs and students often return to their home school ill-prepared to meet current curriculum requirements.
    (5) Schools are often reluctant to deal with youth returning from facilities and receive no funds to deal with the unique educational and other needs of such youth.
    (6) A continuing need exists for activities and programs to reduce the incidence of youth dropping out of school.
    (7) Federal dropout prevention programs have demonstrated effectiveness in keeping children and youth in school.
    (8) Pregnant and parenting teens are a high at-risk group for dropping out of school and should be targeted by dropout prevention programs.
    (9) Such youth need a strong dropout prevention program which provides such youth with high level skills and which provides supports to youth returning from correctional facilities in order to keep such youth in school.
  (b) Purpose
     It is the purpose of this part–
    (1) to improve educational services to children in local and State institutions for neglected or delinquent children and youth so that such children and youth have the opportunity to meet the same challenging State content standards and challenging State student performance standards that all children in the State will be expected to meet;
    (2) to provide such children and youth the services needed to make a successful transition from institutionalization to further schooling or employment; and
    (3) to prevent at-risk youth from dropping out of school and to provide dropouts and youth returning from institutions with a support system to ensure their continued education.
  (c) Program authorized
     In order to carry out the purpose of this part the Secretary shall make grants to State educational agencies to enable such agencies to award subgrants to State agencies and local educational agencies to establish or improve programs of education for neglected or delinquent children and youth at risk of dropping out of school before graduation.
