  (a) In general
     Each local educational agency shall provide not less than 33 percent of the cost of the activities assisted under this part, excluding the cost of services provided to private school teachers.
  (b) Available resources for cost-sharing
    (1) In general
       A local educational agency may meet the requirement of subsection (a) of this section through one or more of the following:
      (A) Cash expenditures from non-Federal sources, including private contributions, directed toward professional development activities.
      (B) Release time for teachers participating in professional development assisted under this part.
      (C) Funds received under one or more of the following programs, so long as such funds are used for professional development activities consistent with this part and the statutes under which such funds were received, and are used to benefit students and teachers in schools that otherwise would have been served with such funds:
        (i) Helping disadvantaged children meet high standards under part A of subchapter I of this chapter.
        (ii) The Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities program under subchapter IV of this chapter.
        (iii) Bilingual Education Programs under part A of subchapter VII of this chapter.
        (iv) Programs under the Women“s Educational Equity Act of 1994 [20 U.S.C. 7231 et seq.].
        (v) Programs under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.].
        (vi) Programs that are related to the purposes of this chapter that are administered by other Federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the National Endowment for the Arts, the Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the Department of Energy.
        (vii) Programs under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.].
    (2) Special rule
       A local educational agency may meet the requirement of subsection (a) of this section through contributions described in paragraph (1) that are provided in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated.
  (c) Waiver
     The State educational agency may approve an application which has not fully met the requirements of subsection (a) of this section and waive the requirements of subsection (a) of this section if a local educational agency can demonstrate that such agency is unable to meet the requirements of subsection (a) of this section due to economic hardship and that compliance with such requirements would preclude such agency“s participation in the program.
