  (a) State grant program
     The Secretary is authorized to make an award to a State educational agency that demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that such agency, through such agency“s own programs and other Federal education programs, effectively provides for the education of children and youth of limited English proficiency within the State.
  (b) Payments
     The amount paid to a State educational agency under subsection (a) of this section shall not exceed 5 percent of the total amount awarded to local educational agencies within the State under subpart 1 of this part for the previous fiscal year, except that in no case shall the amount paid by the Secretary to any State educational agency under this subsection for any fiscal year be less than $100,000.
  (c) Use of funds
    (1) In general
       A State educational agency shall use funds awarded under this section for programs authorized by this section to–
      (A) assist local educational agencies in the State with program design, capacity building, assessment of student performance, and program evaluation; and
      (B) collect data on the State“s limited English proficient populations and the educational programs and services available to such populations.
    (2) Exception
       States which do not, as of October 20, 1994, have in place a system for collecting the data described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) for all students in such State, are not required to meet the requirement of such subparagraph. In the event such State develops a system for collecting data on the educational programs and services available to all students in the State, then such State shall comply with the requirement of paragraph (1)(B).
    (3) Training
       The State educational agency may also use funds provided under this section for the training of State educational agency personnel in educational issues affecting limited English proficient children and youth.
    (4) Special rule
       Recipients of funds under this section shall not restrict the provision of services under this section to federally funded programs.
  (d) State consultation
     A State educational agency receiving funds under this section shall consult with recipients of grants under this subchapter and other individuals or organizations involved in the development or operation of programs serving limited English proficient children or youth to ensure that such funds are used in a manner consistent with the requirements of this subchapter.
  (e) Applications
     A State educational agency desiring to receive funds under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary in such form, at such time, and containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
  (f) Supplement not supplant
     Funds made available under this section for any fiscal year shall be used by the State educational agency to supplement and, to the extent practical, to increase to the level of funds that would, in the absence of such funds, be made available by the State for the purposes described in this section, and in no case to supplant such funds.
  (g) Report to Secretary
     State educational agencies receiving awards under this section shall provide for the annual submission of a summary report to the Secretary describing such State“s use of such funds.
