  (a) In general
    (1) Secretary
       To receive an award under this subpart, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.
    (2) Consultation and assessment
       Each such application shall contain a description of how the applicant has consulted with, and assessed the needs of, public and private schools serving children and youth of limited-English proficiency to determine such school“s need for, and the design of, the program for which funds are sought.
    (3) Special rule
      (A) An application for a grant under subsection (a) of this section from an applicant who proposes to conduct a master“s- or doctoral-level program with funds received under this section shall provide an assurance that such program will include, as a part of the program, a training practicum in a local school program serving children and youth of limited-English proficiency.
      (B) A recipient of a grant under subsection (a) of this section may waive the requirement of a training practicum for a degree candidate with significant experience in a local school program serving children and youth of limited-English proficiency.
    (4) State educational agency
       An eligible entity, with the exception of schools funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall submit a copy of the application under this subsection to the State educational agency.
  (b) State review and comments
    (1) Deadline
       The State educational agency, not later than 45 days after receipt of such application copy, shall review the application and transmit such application to the Secretary.
    (2) Comments
      (A) Regarding any application submitted under this subpart, the State educational agency shall–
        (i) submit to the Secretary written comments regarding all such applications; and
        (ii) submit to each eligible entity the comments that pertain to such entity.
      (B) For purposes of this subpart, comments shall address how the eligible entity–
        (i) will further the academic achievement of limited English proficient students served pursuant to a grant received under this subpart; and
        (ii) how the grant application is consistent with the State plan submitted under section 6311 of this title.
    (3) Waiver
       Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary is authorized to waive the review requirement if a State educational agency can demonstrate that such review requirement may impede such agency“s ability to fulfill the requirements of participation in the State grant program, particularly such agency“s data collection efforts and such agency“s ability to provide technical assistance to local educational agencies not receiving funds under this chapter.
  (c) Eligible entity comments
     An eligible entity may submit to the Secretary comments that address the comments submitted by the State educational agency.
  (d) Comment consideration
     In making awards under this subpart the Secretary shall take into consideration comments made by a State educational agency.
  (e) Special rule
    (1) Outreach and technical assistance
       The Secretary shall provide for outreach and technical assistance to institutions of higher education eligible for assistance under title III of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.] and institutions of higher education that are operated or funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs to facilitate the participation of such institutions in activities under this part.
    (2) Distribution rule
       In making awards under this subpart, the Secretary, consistent with subsection (d) of this section, shall ensure adequate representation of Hispanic-serving institutions that demonstrate competence and experience in the programs and activities authorized under this subpart and are otherwise qualified.
