  (a) Establishment
     There is hereby established in the Smithsonian Institution a bureau, which shall be directed by a board to be known as the Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts (hereafter in this subchapter, referred to as the ””Board““), whose duty it shall be to maintain and administer the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and site thereof as the National Center for the Performing Arts, a living memorial to John Fitzgerald Kennedy, and to execute such other functions as are vested in the Board by this subchapter. The Board shall be composed as follows: The Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Librarian of Congress, the Director of the United States Information Agency, the Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Superintendent of Schools of the District of Columbia, the Director of the National Park Service, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives and 3 additional Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and 3 additional Members of the Senate appointed by the President of the Senate ex officio; and thirty general trustees who shall be citizens of the United States, to be chosen as hereinafter provided.
  (b) General trustees
     The general trustees shall be appointed by the President of the United States. Each trustee shall hold office as a member of the Board for a term of 6 years, except that–
    (1) any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the predecessor of the member was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of the term;
    (2) a member shall continue to serve until the successor of the member has been appointed; and
    (3) the term of office of a member appointed before July 21, 1994, shall expire as designated at the time of appointment.
  (c) Advisory Committee on the Arts
     There shall be an Advisory Committee on the Arts composed of such members as the President of the United States may designate, to serve at the pleasure of the President. Persons appointed to the Advisory Committee on the Arts, including officers or employees of the United States, shall be persons who are recognized for their knowledge of, or experience or interest in, one or more of the arts in the fields covered by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The President shall designate the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on the Arts. In making such appointments the President shall give consideration to such recommendations as may from time to time be submitted to him by leading national organizations in the appropriate art fields. The Advisory Committee on the Arts shall advise and consult with the Board and make recommendations to the Board regarding existing and prospective cultural activities to be carried out by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The Advisory Committee on the Arts shall assist the Board in carrying out section 76k(a) of this title. Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts shall serve without compensation.
