  (a) Amount of grant awards
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section and paragraph (2), the Secretary shall allocate to each local educational agency which has an approved application under this subpart an amount equal to the product of–
      (A) the number of Indian children who are eligible under section 7816 of this title and served by such agency; and
      (B) the greater of–
        (i) the average per-pupil expenditure of the State in which such agency is located; or
        (ii) 80 percent of the average per-pupil expenditure in the United States.
    (2) Reduction
       The Secretary shall reduce the amount of each allocation determined under paragraph (1) in accordance with subsection (e) of this section.
  (b) Minimum grant
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this section, a local educational agency or an Indian tribe (as authorized under section 7812(b) of this title) that is eligible for a grant under section 7812 of this title, and a school that is operated or supported by the Bureau of Indian Affairs that is eligible for a grant under subsection (d) of this section, that submits an application that is approved by the Secretary, shall, subject to appropriations, receive a grant under this subpart in an amount that is not less than $3,000.
    (2) Consortia
       Local educational agencies may form a consortium for the purpose of obtaining grants under this chapter.
    (3) Increase
       The Secretary may increase the minimum grant under paragraph (1) to not more than $4,000 for all grantees if the Secretary determines such increase is necessary to ensure quality programs.
  (c) ””Average per-pupil expenditure of a State““ defined
     For the purpose of this section, the term ””average per-pupil expenditure of a State““ means an amount equal to–
    (1) the sum of the aggregate current expenditures of all the local educational agencies in the State, plus any direct current expenditures by the State for the operation of such agencies, without regard to the sources of funds from which such local or State expenditures were made, during the second fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the computation is made; divided by
    (2) the aggregate number of children who were included in average daily attendance for whom such agencies provided free public education during such preceding fiscal year.
  (d) Schools operated or supported by Bureau of Indian Affairs
     In addition to the grants awarded under subsection (a) of this section, and subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall allocate to the Secretary of the Interior an amount equal to the product of–
    (1) the total number of Indian children enrolled in schools that are operated by–
      (A) the Bureau of Indian Affairs; or
      (B) an Indian tribe, or an organization controlled or sanctioned by an Indian tribal government, for the children of such tribe under a contract with, or grant from, the Department of the Interior under the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.] or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (part B of title V of the Augustus F. Hawkins-Robert T. Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Amendments of 1988) [25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.]; and
    (2) the greater of–
      (A) the average per-pupil expenditure of the State in which the school is located; or
      (B) 80 percent of the average per-pupil expenditure in the United States.
  (e) Ratable reductions
     If the sums appropriated for any fiscal year under section 7882(a) of this title are insufficient to pay in full the amounts determined for local educational agencies under subsection (a)(1) of this section and for the Secretary of the Interior under subsection (d) of this section, each of those amounts shall be ratably reduced.
