  (a) Establishment; duties
     There is established a Commission for the Museum of African Art (hereinafter the ””Commission““) which shall provide advice and assistance to the Board concerning the operation and development of the Museum, its collections and programs.
  (b) Membership
     The Commission shall consist of fifteen members to be appointed by the Board. In addition, the Secretary and an Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall serve as ex officio members. The Board shall appoint to the first term on the Commission no less than ten members of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of African Art who are serving on October 5, 1978. Each initial member so appointed shall serve for a three-year term. Thereafter, in appointing members of the Commission the Board shall continue to include representatives of African descendants in the United States, collectors of African Art, and scholars in the fields of African art and culture.
  (c) Terms of office
     Members of the Commission shall be appointed to serve for a three-year term, except that after the appointment of the first term of the Commission as specified in subsection (b) of this section, the terms of office of members next appointed shall expire, as designated by the Board at the time of appointment, one-third at the end of one year, one-third at the end of two years, and one-third at the end of three years. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term. Members may be reappointed.
  (d) Quorum; vacancies
     A majority of the appointed members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum and any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its power to function.
  (e) Travel, subsistence, and other expenses
     Members of the Commission shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
  (f) Selection of officers; bylaws
     The Commission shall select officers, from among its members biennially and shall make bylaws to carry out its functions under this subchapter.
