  (a) General authority
    (1) Program established
      (A) The Secretary is authorized to carry out a program to enhance the attainment of the third and sixth National Education Goals by educating students about the history and principles of the Constitution of the United States, including the Bill of Rights, and to foster civic competence and responsibility.
      (B) Such program shall be known as ””We the People . . . The Citizen and the Constitution““.
    (2) Educational activities
       The program required by paragraph (1) shall–
      (A) continue and expand the educational activities of the ””We the People . . . The Citizen and the Constitution““ program administered by the Center for Civic Education; and
      (B) enhance student attainment of challenging content standards in civics and government.
    (3) Contract or grant authorized
       The Secretary is authorized to award a grant or enter into a contract with the Center for Civic Education to carry out the program described in paragraph (1).
  (b) Program content
     The education program authorized by this section shall provide–
    (1) a course of instruction on the basic principles of our Nation“s constitutional democracy and the history of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights;
    (2) at the request of a participating school, school and community simulated congressional hearings following the course of study; and
    (3) an annual national competition of simulated congressional hearings for secondary students who wish to participate in such program.
  (c) Availability of program
     The education program authorized by this section shall be made available to public and private elementary and secondary schools in the 435 congressional districts, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the District of Columbia.
  (d) Special rule
     After the provisions of subsection (b) of this section have been implemented, funds provided under this section may be used for–
    (1) advanced training of teachers about the United States Constitution and the political system the United States created; or
    (2) a course of instruction at the middle school level on the roles of State and local governments in the Federal system established by the Constitution, which course shall provide for–
      (A) optional school and community simulated State legislative hearings;
      (B) an annual competition of simulated legislative hearings at the State legislative district, State, and national levels for middle school students who wish to participate in the program; and
      (C) participation by public and private middle schools in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
