  (a) Authorization to call Conference
    (1) In general
       The President is authorized to call and conduct a White House Conference on Rural Education (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Conference““).
    (2) Date
       The Conference shall be held not earlier than November 1, 1995, and not later than October 30, 1996.
    (3) Purpose
       The purposes of the Conference shall be to–
      (A) develop recommendations and strategies for the improvement of rural public education;
      (B) marshal the forces of the private sector, governmental agencies at all levels, parents, teachers, communities, and education officials to assist rural public schools in achieving National Education Goals, and make recommendations on the roles rural public schools can play to assist with local rural community economic revitalization; and
      (C) conduct the initial planning for a permanent national commission on rural public education.
  (b) Composition of Conference
    (1) In general
       The Conference shall be comprised of–
      (A) representatives of eligible public school systems, including members of the governing body of local educational agencies, school superintendents, and classroom teachers;
      (B) representatives of the Congress, the Department, and other Federal agencies;
      (C) State elected officials and representatives from State educational agencies;
      (D) individuals with special knowledge of, and expertise in, rural education, including individuals involved with rural postsecondary education; and
      (E) individuals with special knowledge of, and expertise in, rural business.
    (2) Selection
       The President shall select one-third of the participants of the Conference, the majority leader of the Senate, in consultation with the minority leader of the Senate, shall select one-third of such participants, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the minority leader of the House, shall select the remaining one-third of such participants.
    (3) Representation
       In selecting the participants of the Conference, the President, the majority leader of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall ensure that the participants are as representative of the ethnic, racial, and language diversity of rural areas as is practicable.
  (c) Report
    (1) In general
       Not later than 120 days following the termination of the Conference, a final report of the Conference, containing such findings and recommendations as may be made by the Conference, shall be submitted to the President. The final report shall be made public and, not later than 90 days after receipt by the President, transmitted to the Congress together with a statement of the President containing recommendations for implementing the report.
    (2) Publication and distribution
       The Conference is authorized to publish and distribute the report described in this section. Copies of the report shall be provided to the Federal depository libraries and made available to local rural school leaders and teachers.
