  (a) Findings
     The Congress finds the following:
    (1) Growing numbers of children are negatively affected by influences outside of the classroom which increase such children“s risk of academic failure.
    (2) Factors such as poor nutrition, unsafe living conditions, physical and sexual abuse, family and gang violence, inadequate health care, unemployment, lack of child care, and substance abuse, adversely affect family relationships and the ability of a child to learn.
    (3) Parents and other caregivers in today“s high pressure society often face demands which place restraints on such parents“ and caregivers“ time and affect such parents“ and caregivers“ ability to adequately provide for the needs of the families of such parents and caregivers.
    (4) Access to health and social service programs can address the basic physical and emotional needs of children so that children can fully participate in the learning experiences offered children in school.
    (5) Services for at-risk students need to be more convenient, and less fragmented, regulated and duplicative, in order to meet the needs of children and their families.
    (6) School personnel, parents, and support service providers often lack knowledge of, and access to, available services for at-risk students and their families in the community, and have few resources to coordinate services and make services accessible.
    (7) Service providers, such as teachers, social workers, health care and child care providers, juvenile justice workers and others, are often trained in separate disciplines that provide little support for the coordination of services.
    (8) Coordination of services is more cost effective because such coordination substitutes prevention for expensive crisis intervention.
    (9) Coordinating health and social services with education can help the Nation meet the National Education Goals by ensuring better outcomes for children.
  (b) Purpose of coordinating services
     The purpose of this subchapter is to provide elementary and secondary school students and their families better access to the social, health and education services necessary for students to succeed in school and for their families to take an active role in ensuring that such students receive the best possible education.
