  (a) General authority
    (1) Simplification
       In order to simplify application requirements and reduce the burden for State educational agencies under this chapter, the Secretary, in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, shall establish procedures and criteria under which a State educational agency may submit a consolidated State plan or a consolidated State application meeting the requirements of this section for–
      (A) each of the covered programs in which the State participates; and
      (B) the additional programs described in paragraph (2).
    (2) Additional programs
       A State educational agency may also include in its consolidated State plan or consolidated State application–
      (A) the Even Start program under part B of subchapter I of this chapter;
      (B) the Prevention and Intervention Programs for Youth Who Are Neglected, Delinquent, or At-Risk of Dropping Out under part D of subchapter I of this chapter;
      (C) programs under part A of title II of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act [20 U.S.C. 2331 et seq.];
      (D) programs under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.];
      (E) programs under the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994 [20 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.]; and
      (F) such other programs as the Secretary may designate.
    (3) Consolidated applications and plans
       A State educational agency that submits a consolidated State plan or a consolidated State application under this section shall not be required to submit separate State plans or applications under any of the programs to which the consolidated State plan or consolidated State application under this section applies.
  (b) Collaboration
    (1) In general
       In establishing criteria and procedures under this section, the Secretary shall collaborate with State educational agencies and, as appropriate, with other State agencies, local educational agencies, public and private nonprofit agencies, organizations, and institutions, private schools, and representatives of parents, students, and teachers.
    (2) Contents
       Through the collaborative process described in subsection (b)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall establish, for each program under the chapter to which this section applies, the descriptions, information, assurances, and other material required to be included in a consolidated State plan or consolidated State application.
    (3) Necessary materials
       The Secretary shall require only descriptions, information, assurances, and other materials that are absolutely necessary for the consideration of the consolidated State plan or consolidated State application.
