  (a) State plans
    (1) In general
       Each State plan submitted under the following programs shall be integrated with each other and the State“s improvement plan, if any, either approved or being developed, under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.], the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994 [20 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.], and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.]:
      (A) Part A of subchapter I of this chapter (helping disadvantaged children meet high standards).
      (B) Part C of subchapter I of this chapter (education of migratory children).
      (C) Part D of subchapter I of this chapter (education of neglected, delinquent, and at-risk youth).
      (D) Subchapter II of this chapter (professional development).
      (E) Subchapter IV of this chapter (safe and drug-free schools).
      (F) Subchapter VI of this chapter (innovative education program strategies).
      (G) Subpart 4 of part A of subchapter IX of this chapter (Indian education).
    (2) Special rule
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if a requirement relating to a State plan referred to in paragraph (1) is already satisfied by the approved State improvement plan for such State under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.], the State plan referred to in paragraph (1) need not separately address that requirement.
    (3) Amendment
       Any State plan referred to in paragraph (1) may, if necessary, be submitted as an amendment to the State improvement plan for such State under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.].
  (b) Local plans
    (1) In general
       Each local educational agency plan submitted under the following programs shall be integrated with each other and its local improvement plan, if any, either approved or being developed, under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.]:
      (A) Part A of subchapter I of this chapter (helping disadvantaged children meet high standards).
      (B) Subchapter II of this chapter (professional development).
      (C) Subchapter IV of this chapter (safe and drug-free schools).
      (D) Subpart 4 of part A of subchapter IX of this chapter (Indian education).
      (E) Subpart 1 of part A of subchapter VII of this chapter (bilingual education).
      (F) Subchapter VI of this chapter (innovative education program strategies).
      (G) Part C of subchapter VII of this chapter (emergency immigrant education).
    (2) Plan of operation
       Each plan of operation included in an application submitted by an eligible entity under part B of subchapter I of this chapter (Even Start) shall be consistent with, and promote the goals of, the State and local improvement plans, either approved or being developed, under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.] or, if those plans are not approved or being developed, with the State and local plans under sections 6311 and 6312 of this title.
    (3) Special rule
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if a requirement relating to a local plan referred to in paragraph (1) is already satisfied by the local educational agency“s approved local improvement plan under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.], the local plan referred to in paragraph (1) need not separately address that requirement.
    (4) Submission
       Any local plan referred to in paragraph (1) may, if necessary, be submitted as an amendment to the local educational agency“s improvement plan under title III of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act [20 U.S.C. 5881 et seq.].
