  (a) Short title
     This section may be cited as the ””Gun-Free Schools Act of 1994““.
  (b) Requirements
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (3), each State receiving Federal funds under this chapter shall have in effect a State law requiring local educational agencies to expel from school for a period of not less than one year a student who is determined to have brought a weapon to a school under the jurisdiction of local educational agencies in that State, except that such State law shall allow the chief administering officer of such local educational agency to modify such expulsion requirement for a student on a case-by-case basis.
    (2) Construction
       Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent a State from allowing a local educational agency that has expelled a student from such a student“s regular school setting from providing educational services to such student in an alternative setting.
    (3) Special rule
      (A) Any State that has a law in effect prior to October 20, 1994, which is in conflict with the not less than one year expulsion requirement described in paragraph (1) shall have the period of time described in subparagraph (B) to comply with such requirement.
      (B) The period of time shall be the period beginning on October 20, 1994, and ending one year after such date.
    (4) ””Weapon““ defined
       For the purpose of this section, the term ””weapon““ means a firearm as such term is defined in section 921 of title 18.
  (c) Special rule
     The provisions of this section shall be construed in a manner consistent with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.].
  (d) Report to State
     Each local educational agency requesting assistance from the State educational agency that is to be provided from funds made available to the State under this chapter shall provide to the State, in the application requesting such assistance–
    (1) an assurance that such local educational agency is in compliance with the State law required by subsection (b) of this section; and
    (2) a description of the circumstances surrounding any expulsions imposed under the State law required by subsection (b) of this section, including–
      (A) the name of the school concerned;
      (B) the number of students expelled from such school; and
      (C) the type of weapons concerned.
  (e) Reporting
     Each State shall report the information described in subsection (c) of this section to the Secretary on an annual basis.
  (f) Report to Congress
     Two years after October 20, 1994, the Secretary shall report to Congress if any State is not in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
