  (a) Establishment
     There is established the National Assessment Governing Board (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the ””Board““), which shall formulate policy guidelines for the National Assessment.
  (b) Membership
    (1) Appointment and composition
       The Board shall be appointed by the Secretary and be composed of–
      (A) two Governors, or former Governors, who shall not be members of the same political party;
      (B) two State legislators, who shall not be members of the same political party;
      (C) two chief State school officers;
      (D) one superintendent of a local educational agency;
      (E) one member of a State board of education;
      (F) one member of a local board of education;
      (G) three classroom teachers representing the grade levels at which the National Assessment is conducted;
      (H) one representative of business or industry;
      (I) two curriculum specialists;
      (J) three testing and measurement experts, who shall have training and experience in the field of testing and measurement;
      (K) one nonpublic school administrator or policymaker;
      (L) two school principals, of whom one shall be an elementary school principal and one shall be a secondary school principal; and
      (M) four additional members who are representatives of the general public, including parents.
    (2) Assistant Secretary for Educational Research
       The Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement shall serve as an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Board.
    (3) Special rule
       The Secretary and the Board shall ensure at all times that the membership of the Board reflects regional, racial, gender, and cultural balance and diversity and that the Board exercises its independent judgment, free from inappropriate influences and special interests.
  (c) Terms
    (1) In general
       Terms of service of members of the Board shall be staggered and may not exceed a period of 3 years, as determined by the Secretary.
    (2) Service limitation
       Members of the Board may serve not more than two terms.
    (3) Change of status
       A member of the Board who changes status under subsection (b) of this section during the term of the appointment of the member may continue to serve as a member until the expiration of such term.
  (d) Vacancies
    (1) In general
      (A) The Secretary shall appoint new members to fill vacancies on the Board from among individuals who are nominated by organizations representing the type of individuals described in subsection (b)(1) of this section with respect to which the vacancy exists.
      (B) Each organization submitting nominations to the Secretary with respect to a particular vacancy shall nominate for such vacancy six individuals who are qualified by experience or training to fill the particular Board vacancy.
      (C) The Secretary“s appointments shall maintain the composition, diversity, and balance of the Board required under subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) Additional nominations
       The Secretary may request that each organization described in paragraph (1)(A) submit additional nominations if the Secretary determines that none of the individuals nominated by such organization have appropriate knowledge or expertise.
  (e) Duties
    (1) In general
       In carrying out its functions under this section the Board shall–
      (A) select subject areas to be assessed (consistent with section 9010(b)(1) of this title);
      (B) develop appropriate student performance levels as provided in section 9010(e) of this title;
      (C) develop assessment objectives and test specifications through a national consensus approach which includes the active participation of teachers, curriculum specialists, local school administrators, parents, and concerned members of the public;
      (D) design the methodology of the assessment, in consultation with appropriate technical experts, including the Advisory Council established under section 9006 of this title;
      (E) develop guidelines for reporting and disseminating results;
      (F) develop standards and procedures for interstate, regional, and national comparisons; and
      (G) take appropriate actions needed to improve the form and use of the National Assessment.
    (2) Delegation
       The Board may delegate any of the Board“s procedural and administrative functions to its staff.
    (3) Cognitive items
       The Board shall have final authority on the appropriateness of cognitive items.
    (4) Prohibition against bias
       The Board shall take steps to ensure that all items selected for use in the National Assessment are free from racial, cultural, gender, or regional bias.
    (5) Technical
       In carrying out the duties required by paragraph (1), the Board may seek technical advice, as appropriate, from the Commissioner and the Advisory Council on Education Statistics and other experts.
    (6) Report
       Not later than 90 days after an evaluation of the student performance levels under section 9010(e) of this title, the Board shall make a report to the Secretary, the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate describing the steps the Board is taking to respond to each of the recommendations contained in such evaluation.
  (f) Personnel
    (1) In general
       In the exercise of its responsibilities, the Board shall be independent of the Secretary and the other offices and officers of the Department.
    (2) Staff
      (A) The Secretary may appoint, at the request of the Board, such staff as will enable the Board to carry out its responsibilities.
      (B) Such appointments may include, for terms not to exceed three years and without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, not more than six technical employees who may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
  (g) Coordination
     The Commissioner and the Board shall meet periodically–
    (1) to ensure coordination of their duties and activities relating to the National Assessment; and
    (2) for the Commissioner to report to the Board on the Department“s actions to implement the decisions of the Board.
  (h) Administration
     Only sections 10, 11, and 12 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall apply with respect to the Board.
