  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the Institute a National Museum Services Board.
  (b) Composition and qualifications
    (1) Composition
       The Museum Board shall consist of the Director and 14 members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) Qualifications
       The appointive members of the Museum Board shall be selected from among citizens of the United States–
      (A) who are members of the general public;
      (B) who are or have been affiliated with–
        (i) resources that, collectively, are broadly representative of the curatorial, conservation, educational, and cultural resources of the United States; or
        (ii) museums that, collectively, are broadly representative of various types of museums, including museums relating to science, history, technology, art, zoos, and botanical gardens; and
      (C) who are recognized for their broad knowledge, expertise, or experience in museums or commitment to museums.
    (3) Geographic and other representation
       Members of the Museum Board shall be appointed to reflect persons from various geographic regions of the United States. The Museum Board may not include, at any time, more than 3 members from a single State. In making such appointments, the President shall give due regard to equitable representation of women, minorities, and persons with disabilities who are involved with museums.
  (c) Terms
    (1) In general
       Each appointive member of the Museum Board shall serve for a term of 5 years, except that–
      (A) of the members first appointed, 3 shall serve for terms of 5 years, 3 shall serve for terms of 4 years, 3 shall serve for terms of 3 years, 3 shall serve for terms of 2 years, and 2 shall serve for terms of 1 year, as designated by the President at the time of nomination for appointment; and
      (B) any member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor of the member was appointed.
    (2) Reappointment
       No member of the Museum Board who has been a member for more than 7 consecutive years shall be eligible for reappointment.
    (3) Service until successor takes office
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, a member of the Museum Board shall serve after the expiration of the term of the member until the successor to the member takes office.
  (d) Duties and powers
     The Museum Board shall have the responsibility to advise the Director on general policies with respect to the duties, powers, and authority of the Institute relating to museum services, including general policies with respect to–
    (1) financial assistance awarded under this subchapter for museum services; and
    (2) projects described in section 9162(a)(4) of this title.
  (e) Chairperson
     The President shall designate 1 of the appointive members of the Museum Board as Chairperson of the Museum Board.
  (f) Meetings
    (1) In general
       The Museum Board shall meet–
      (A) not less than 3 times each year, including–
        (i) not less than 2 times each year separately; and
        (ii) not less than 1 time each year in a joint meeting with the Commission, convened for purposes of making general policies with respect to financial assistance for projects described in section 9162(a)(4) of this title; and
      (B) at the call of the Director.
    (2) Vote
       All decisions by the Museum Board with respect to the exercise of the duties and powers of the Museum Board shall be made by a majority vote of the members of the Museum Board who are present. All decisions by the Commission and the Museum Board with respect to the policies described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) shall be made by a \2/3\ majority vote of the total number of the members of the Commission and the Museum Board who are present.
  (g) Quorum
     A majority of the members of the Museum Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business at official meetings of the Museum Board, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings. A majority of the members of the Commission and a majority of the members of the Museum Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business at official joint meetings of the Commission and the Museum Board.
  (h) Compensation and travel expenses
    (1) Compensation
       Each member of the Museum Board who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government may be compensated at a rate to be fixed by the President, but not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum rate authorized for a position above grade GS–15 of the General Schedule under section 5108 of title 5, for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Museum Board. All members of the Museum Board who are officers or employees of the Federal Government shall serve without compensation in addition to compensation received for their services as officers or employees of the Federal Government.
    (2) Travel expenses
       The members of the Museum Board may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same amounts and to the same extent, as authorized under section 5703 of title 5 for persons employed intermittently in Federal Government service.
      (i) Coordination
         The Museum Board, with the advice of the Director, shall take steps to ensure that the policies and activities of the Institute are coordinated with other activities of the Federal Government.
