  (a) Establishment by regulation of minimum allotment formula; criteria
     The Director shall by regulation establish a formula for determining the minimum allotment of funds necessary for the operation of each school in the defense dependents“ education system. In establishing such formula, the Director shall take into consideration–
    (1) the number of students served by a school and the size of the school;
    (2) special cost factors for a school, including–
      (A) geographic isolation of the school,
      (B) a need for special staffing, transportation, or educational programs at the school, and
      (C) unusual food and housing costs,
    (3) the cost of providing academic services of a high quality as required by section 921(b)(1) of this title; and
    (4) such other factors as the Director considers appropriate.
  (b) Issuance, etc., of regulations
     Any regulation under subsection (a) of this section shall be issued, and shall become effective, in accordance with the procedures applicable to regulations required to be issued by the Secretary of Education in accordance with section 1232 \1\N of this title.
  (c) Applicability of certain provisions
    (1) Children with disabilities
       Notwithstanding the provisions of section 921(b)(3) of this title, the provisions of part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.], other than the funding and reporting provisions, shall apply to all schools operated by the Department of Defense under this chapter, including the requirement that children with disabilities, aged 3 to 5, inclusive, receive a free appropriate public education by academic year 1993–1994.
    (2) Infants and toddlers with disabilities
       The responsibility to provide comparable early intervention services to infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families in accordance with individualized family service plans described in section 677 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1477] and to comply with the procedural safeguards set forth in part H of such Act [20 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.] shall apply with respect to all eligible dependents overseas.
    (3) Implementation timelines
       In carrying out the provisions of paragraph (2), the Secretary shall–
      (A) in academic year 1991–1992 and the 2 succeeding academic years, plan and develop a comprehensive, coordinated, multidisciplinary program of early intervention services for infants and toddlers with disabilities among Department of Defense entities involved in the provision of such services to such individuals;
      (B) in academic year 1994–1995, implement the program described in subparagraph (A), except the Secretary need only conduct multidisciplinary assessments, develop individualized family service plans, and make available case management services; and
      (C) in academic year 1995–1996 and succeeding academic years, have in effect the program described in subparagraph (A).
