  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the National Endowment for the Humanities a National Council on the Humanities.
  (b) Composition; basis for selection of members; representation of interests; recommendations of national organizations
     The Council shall be composed of the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities, who shall be the Chairperson of the Council, and twenty-six other members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from private life. Such members shall be individuals who (1) are selected from among private citizens of the United States who are recognized for their broad knowledge of, expertise in, or commitment to the humanities, and (2) have established records of distinguished service and scholarship or creativity and in a manner which will provide a comprehensive representation of the views of scholars and professional practitioners in the humanities and of the public throughout the United States. The President is requested in the making of such appointments to give consideration to such recommendations as may from time to time be submitted to him by leading national organizations concerned with the humanities. In making such appointments, the President shall give due regard to equitable representation of women, minorities, and individuals with disabilities who are involved in the humanities.
  (c) Term of office; vacancies; reappointment
     Each member shall hold office for a term of six years, except that (1) the members first taking office shall serve, as designated by the President, nine for terms of two years, nine for terms of four years, and eight for terms of six years, and (2) any member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which such member“s predecessor was appointed. No member shall be eligible for reappointment during the two-year period following the expiration of such member“s term. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection, a member shall serve after the expiration of such member“s term until such member“s successor takes office.
  (d) Meetings; quorum
     The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairperson but not less often than twice during each calendar year. Fourteen members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
  (e) Compensation and travel expenses
     Members shall receive compensation at a rate to be fixed by the Chairperson but not to exceed the per diem equivalent of the rate authorized for grade GS–18 by section 5332 of title 5 and be allowed travel expenses including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law (section 5703 of title 5) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.
  (f) Advisory functions: policies, programs, and procedures; review of applications for financial support; recommendations prerequisite to action of Chairperson; unilateral action by Chairperson pursuant to delegation of authority
     The Council shall (1) advise the Chairperson with respect to policies, programs, and procedures for carrying out the Chairperson“s functions, and (2) shall review applications for financial support and make recommendations thereon to the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall not approve or disapprove any such application until the Chairperson has received the recommendation of the Council on such application, unless the Council fails to make a recommendation thereon within a reasonable time. In the case of any application involving $30,000, or less, the Chairperson may approve or disapprove such request if such action is taken pursuant to the terms of a delegation of authority from the Council to the Chairperson, and provided that each such action by the Chairperson shall be reviewed by the Council: T3ProvidedK, That the terms of any such delegation of authority shall not permit obligations for expenditure of funds under such delegation for any fiscal year which exceed an amount equal to 10 per centum of the sums appropriated for that fiscal year pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of section 960(a) of this title.
