  (a) Establishment
     Not later than 60 days after October 13, 2006, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission shall establish an advisory committee, to be known as the Commercial Mobile Service Alert Advisory Committee (referred to in this section as the ””Advisory Committee““).
  (b) Membership
     The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission shall appoint the members of the Advisory Committee, as soon as practicable after October 13, 2006, from the following groups:
    (1) State and local government representatives
       Representatives of State and local governments and representatives of emergency response providers, selected from among individuals nominated by national organizations representing such governments and personnel.
    (2) Tribal governments
       Representatives from Federally recognized Indian tribes and National Indian organizations.
    (3) Subject matter experts
       Individuals who have the requisite technical knowledge and expertise to serve on the Advisory Committee in the fulfillment of its duties, including representatives of–
      (A) communications service providers;
      (B) vendors, developers, and manufacturers of systems, facilities, equipment, and capabilities for the provision of communications services;
      (C) third-party service bureaus;
      (D) technical experts from the broadcasting industry;
      (E) the national organization representing the licensees and permittees of noncommercial broadcast television stations;
      (F) national organizations representing individuals with special needs, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and
      (G) other individuals with relevant technical expertise.
    (4) Qualified representatives of other stakeholders and interested parties
       Qualified representatives of such other stakeholders and interested and affected parties as the chairman deems appropriate.
  (c) Development of system-critical recommendations
     Within 1 year after October 13, 2006, the Advisory Committee shall develop and submit to the Federal Communications Commission recommendations–
    (1) for protocols, technical capabilities, and technical procedures through which electing commercial mobile service providers receive, verify, and transmit alerts to subscribers;
    (2) for the establishment of technical standards for priority transmission of alerts by electing commercial mobile service providers to subscribers;
    (3) for relevant technical standards for devices and equipment and technologies used by electing commercial mobile service providers to transmit emergency alerts to subscribers;
    (4) for the technical capability to transmit emergency alerts by electing commercial mobile providers to subscribers in languages in addition to English, to the extent practicable and feasible;
    (5) under which electing commercial mobile service providers may offer subscribers the capability of preventing the subscriber“s device from receiving emergency alerts, or classes of such alerts, (other than an alert issued by the President), consistent with section 1201(b)(2)(E) of this title;
    (6) for a process under which commercial mobile service providers can elect to transmit emergency alerts if–
      (A) not all of the devices or equipment used by such provider are capable of receiving such alerts; or
      (B) the provider cannot offer such alerts throughout the entirety of its service area; and
    (7) as otherwise necessary to enable electing commercial mobile service providers to transmit emergency alerts to subscribers.
  (d) Meetings
    (1) Initial meeting
       The initial meeting of the Advisory Committee shall take place not later than 60 days after October 13, 2006.
    (2) Other meetings
       After the initial meeting, the Advisory Committee shall meet at the call of the chair.
    (3) Notice; open meetings
       Any meetings held by the Advisory Committee shall be duly noticed at least 14 days in advance and shall be open to the public.
  (e) Rules
    (1) Quorum
       One-third of the members of the Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum for conducting business of the Advisory Committee.
    (2) Subcommittees
       To assist the Advisory Committee in carrying out its functions, the chair may establish appropriate subcommittees composed of members of the Advisory Committee and other subject matter experts as deemed necessary.
    (3) Additional rules
       The Advisory Committee may adopt other rules as needed.
  (f) Federal Advisory Committee Act
     Neither the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) nor any rule, order, or regulation promulgated under that Act shall apply to the Advisory Committee.
  (g) Consultation with NIST
     The Advisory Committee shall consult with the National Institute of Standards and Technology in its work on developing recommendations under paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (c).
