  (a) Procedures to review universal service requirements
    (1) Federal-State Joint Board on universal service
       Within one month after February 8, 1996, the Commission shall institute and refer to a Federal-State Joint Board under section 410(c) of this title a proceeding to recommend changes to any of its regulations in order to implement sections 214(e) of this title and this section, including the definition of the services that are supported by Federal universal service support mechanisms and a specific timetable for completion of such recommendations. In addition to the members of the Joint Board required under section 410(c) of this title, one member of such Joint Board shall be a State-appointed utility consumer advocate nominated by a national organization of State utility consumer advocates. The Joint Board shall, after notice and opportunity for public comment, make its recommendations to the Commission 9 months after February 8, 1996.
    (2) Commission action
       The Commission shall initiate a single proceeding to implement the recommendations from the Joint Board required by paragraph (1) and shall complete such proceeding within 15 months after February 8, 1996. The rules established by such proceeding shall include a definition of the services that are supported by Federal universal service support mechanisms and a specific timetable for implementation. Thereafter, the Commission shall complete any proceeding to implement subsequent recommendations from any Joint Board on universal service within one year after receiving such recommendations.
  (b) Universal service principles
     The Joint Board and the Commission shall base policies for the preservation and advancement of universal service on the following principles:
    (1) Quality and rates
       Quality services should be available at just, reasonable, and affordable rates.
    (2) Access to advanced services
       Access to advanced telecommunications and information services should be provided in all regions of the Nation.
    (3) Access in rural and high cost areas
       Consumers in all regions of the Nation, including low-income consumers and those in rural, insular, and high cost areas, should have access to telecommunications and information services, including interexchange services and advanced telecommunications and information services, that are reasonably comparable to those services provided in urban areas and that are available at rates that are reasonably comparable to rates charged for similar services in urban areas.
    (4) Equitable and nondiscriminatory contributions
       All providers of telecommunications services should make an equitable and nondiscriminatory contribution to the preservation and advancement of universal service.
    (5) Specific and predictable support mechanisms
       There should be specific, predictable and sufficient Federal and State mechanisms to preserve and advance universal service.
    (6) Access to advanced telecommunications services for schools, health care, and libraries
       Elementary and secondary schools and classrooms, health care providers, and libraries should have access to advanced telecommunications services as described in subsection (h) of this section.
    (7) Additional principles
       Such other principles as the Joint Board and the Commission determine are necessary and appropriate for the protection of the public interest, convenience, and necessity and are consistent with this chapter.
  (c) Definition
    (1) In general
       Universal service is an evolving level of telecommunications services that the Commission shall establish periodically under this section, taking into account advances in telecommunications and information technologies and services. The Joint Board in recommending, and the Commission in establishing, the definition of the services that are supported by Federal universal service support mechanisms shall consider the extent to which such telecommunications services–
      (A) are essential to education, public health, or public safety;
      (B) have, through the operation of market choices by customers, been subscribed to by a substantial majority of residential customers;
      (C) are being deployed in public telecommunications networks by telecommunications carriers; and
      (D) are consistent with the public interest, convenience, and necessity.
    (2) Alterations and modifications
       The Joint Board may, from time to time, recommend to the Commission modifications in the definition of the services that are supported by Federal universal service support mechanisms. 
    (3) Special services
       In addition to the services included in the definition of universal service under paragraph (1), the Commission may designate additional services for such support mechanisms for schools, libraries, and health care providers for the purposes of subsection (h) of this section.
  (d) Telecommunications carrier contribution
     Every telecommunications carrier that provides interstate telecommunications services shall contribute, on an equitable and nondiscriminatory basis, to the specific, predictable, and sufficient mechanisms established by the Commission to preserve and advance universal service. The Commission may exempt a carrier or class of carriers from this requirement if the carrier“s telecommunications activities are limited to such an extent that the level of such carrier“s contribution to the preservation and advancement of universal service would be de minimis. Any other provider of interstate telecommunications may be required to contribute to the preservation and advancement of universal service if the public interest so requires.
  (e) Universal service support
     After the date on which Commission regulations implementing this section take effect, only an eligible telecommunications carrier designated under section 214(e) of this title shall be eligible to receive specific Federal universal service support. A carrier that receives such support shall use that support only for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which the support is intended. Any such support should be explicit and sufficient to achieve the purposes of this section.
  (f) State authority
     A State may adopt regulations not inconsistent with the Commission“s rules to preserve and advance universal service. Every telecommunications carrier that provides intrastate telecommunications services shall contribute, on an equitable and nondiscriminatory basis, in a manner determined by the State to the preservation and advancement of universal service in that State. A State may adopt regulations to provide for additional definitions and standards to preserve and advance universal service within that State only to the extent that such regulations adopt additional specific, predictable, and sufficient mechanisms to support such definitions or standards that do not rely on or burden Federal universal service support mechanisms.
  (g) Interexchange and interstate services
     Within 6 months after February 8, 1996, the Commission shall adopt rules to require that the rates charged by providers of interexchange telecommunications services to subscribers in rural and high cost areas shall be no higher than the rates charged by each such provider to its subscribers in urban areas. Such rules shall also require that a provider of interstate interexchange telecommunications services shall provide such services to its subscribers in each State at rates no higher than the rates charged to its subscribers in any other State.
  (h) Telecommunications services for certain providers
    (1) In general
      (A) Health care providers for rural areas
         A telecommunications carrier shall, upon receiving a bona fide request, provide telecommunications services which are necessary for the provision of health care services in a State, including instruction relating to such services, to any public or nonprofit health care provider that serves persons who reside in rural areas in that State at rates that are reasonably comparable to rates charged for similar services in urban areas in that State. A telecommunications carrier providing service under this paragraph shall be entitled to have an amount equal to the difference, if any, between the rates for services provided to health care providers for rural areas in a State and the rates for similar services provided to other customers in comparable rural areas in that State treated as a service obligation as a part of its obligation to participate in the mechanisms to preserve and advance universal service.
      (B) Educational providers and libraries
         All telecommunications carriers serving a geographic area shall, upon a bona fide request for any of its services that are within the definition of universal service under subsection (c)(3) of this section, provide such services to elementary schools, secondary schools, and libraries for educational purposes at rates less than the amounts charged for similar services to other parties. The discount shall be an amount that the Commission, with respect to interstate services, and the States, with respect to intrastate services, determine is appropriate and necessary to ensure affordable access to and use of such services by such entities. A telecommunications carrier providing service under this paragraph shall–
        (i) have an amount equal to the amount of the discount treated as an offset to its obligation to contribute to the mechanisms to preserve and advance universal service, or
        (ii) notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (e) of this section, receive reimbursement utilizing the support mechanisms to preserve and advance universal service.
    (2) Advanced services
       The Commission shall establish competitively neutral rules–
      (A) to enhance, to the extent technically feasible and economically reasonable, access to advanced telecommunications and information services for all public and nonprofit elementary and secondary school classrooms, health care providers, and libraries; and
      (B) to define the circumstances under which a telecommunications carrier may be required to connect its network to such public institutional telecommunications users.
    (3) Terms and conditions
       Telecommunications services and network capacity provided to a public institutional telecommunications user under this subsection may not be sold, resold, or otherwise transferred by such user in consideration for money or any other thing of value.
    (4) Eligibility of users
       No entity listed in this subsection shall be entitled to preferential rates or treatment as required by this subsection, if such entity operates as a for-profit business, is a school described in paragraph (5)(A) with an endowment of more than $50,000,000, or is a library or library consortium not eligible for assistance from a State library administrative agency under the Library Services and Technology Act [20 U.S.C. 9121 et seq.].
    (5) Definitions
       For purposes of this subsection:
      (A) Elementary and secondary schools
         The term ””elementary and secondary schools““ means elementary schools and secondary schools, as defined in paragraphs (14) and (25), respectively, of section 8801 of title 20.
      (B) Health care provider
         The term ””health care provider““ means– 
        (i) post-secondary educational institutions offering health care instruction, teaching hospitals, and medical schools;
        (ii) community health centers or health centers providing health care to migrants;
        (iii) local health departments or agencies;
        (iv) community mental health centers;
        (v) not-for-profit hospitals;
        (vi) rural health clinics; and
        (vii) consortia of health care providers consisting of one or more entities described in clauses (i) through (vi).
      (C) Public institutional telecommunications user
         The term ””public institutional telecommunications user““ means an elementary or secondary school, a library, or a health care provider as those terms are defined in this paragraph.
        (i) Consumer protection
           The Commission and the States should ensure that universal service is available at rates that are just, reasonable, and affordable.
        (j) Lifeline assistance
           Nothing in this section shall affect the collection, distribution, or administration of the Lifeline Assistance Program provided for by the Commission under regulations set forth in section 69.117 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, and other related sections of such title.
        (k) Subsidy of competitive services prohibited
           A telecommunications carrier may not use services that are not competitive to subsidize services that are subject to competition. The Commission, with respect to interstate services, and the States, with respect to intrastate services, shall establish any necessary cost allocation rules, accounting safeguards, and guidelines to ensure that services included in the definition of universal service bear no more than a reasonable share of the joint and common costs of facilities used to provide those services.
