  (a) Provisions relating to carriage of distant signals
    (1) Carriage permitted
      (A) In general
         Subject to section 119 of title 17, any satellite carrier shall be permitted to provide the signals of no more than two network stations in a single day for each television network to any household not located within the local markets of those network stations.
      (B) Additional service
         In addition to signals provided under subparagraph (A), any satellite carrier may also provide service under the statutory license of section 122 of title 17, to the local market within which such household is located. The service provided under section 122 of such title may be in addition to the two signals provided under section 119 of such title.
    (2) Penalty for violation
       Any satellite carrier that knowingly and willfully provides the signals of television stations to subscribers in violation of this subsection shall be liable for a forfeiture penalty under section 503 of this title in the amount of $50,000 for each violation or each day of a continuing violation.
  (b) Extension of network nonduplication, syndicated exclusivity, and sports blackout to satellite retransmission
    (1) Extension of protections
       Within 45 days after November 29, 1999, the Commission shall commence a single rulemaking proceeding to establish regulations that–
      (A) apply network nonduplication protection (47 CFR 76.92) syndicated exclusivity protection (47 CFR 76.151), and sports blackout protection (47 CFR 76.67) to the retransmission of the signals of nationally distributed superstations by satellite carriers to subscribers; and
      (B) to the extent technically feasible and not economically prohibitive, apply sports blackout protection (47 CFR 76.67) to the retransmission of the signals of network stations by satellite carriers to subscribers.
    (2) Deadline for action
       The Commission shall complete all actions necessary to prescribe regulations required by this section so that the regulations shall become effective within 1 year after November 29, 1999.
  (c) Eligibility for retransmission
    (1) Signal standard for satellite carrier purposes
       For the purposes of identifying an unserved household under section 119(d)(10) of title 17, within 1 year after November 29, 1999, the Commission shall conclude an inquiry to evaluate all possible standards and factors for determining eligibility for retransmissions of the signals of network stations, and, if appropriate–
      (A) recommend modifications to the Grade B intensity standard for analog signals set forth in section 73.683(a) of its regulations (47 CFR 73.683(a)), or recommend alternative standards or factors for purposes of determining such eligibility; and
      (B) make a further recommendation relating to an appropriate standard for digital signals.
    (2) Waivers
       A subscriber who is denied the retransmission of a signal of a network station under section 119 of title 17 may request a waiver from such denial by submitting a request, through such subscriber“s satellite carrier, to the network station asserting that the retransmission is prohibited. The network station shall accept or reject a subscriber“s request for a waiver within 30 days after receipt of the request. The subscriber shall be permitted to receive such retransmission under section 119(d)(10)(B) of title 17, if such station agrees to the waiver request and files with the satellite carrier a written waiver with respect to that subscriber allowing the subscriber to receive such retransmission. If a television network station fails to accept or reject a subscriber“s request for a waiver within the 30-day period after receipt of the request, that station shall be deemed to agree to the waiver request and have filed such written waiver.
    (3) Establishment of improved predictive model required
       Within 180 days after November 29, 1999, the Commission shall take all actions necessary, including any reconsideration, to develop and prescribe by rule a point-to-point predictive model for reliably and presumptively determining the ability of individual locations to receive signals in accordance with the signal intensity standard in effect under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17. In prescribing such model, the Commission shall rely on the Individual Location Longley-Rice model set forth by the Federal Communications Commission in Docket No. 98–201 and ensure that such model takes into account terrain, building structures, and other land cover variations. The Commission shall establish procedures for the continued refinement in the application of the model by the use of additional data as it becomes available.
    (4) Objective verification
      (A) In general
         If a subscriber“s request for a waiver under paragraph (2) is rejected and the subscriber submits to the subscriber“s satellite carrier a request for a test verifying the subscriber“s inability to receive a signal that meets the signal intensity standard in effect under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17, the satellite carrier and the network station or stations asserting that the retransmission is prohibited with respect to that subscriber shall select a qualified and independent person to conduct a test in accordance with section 73.686(d) of its regulations (47 CFR 73.686(d)), or any successor regulation. Such test shall be conducted within 30 days after the date the subscriber submits a request for the test. If the written findings and conclusions of a test conducted in accordance with such section (or any successor regulation) demonstrate that the subscriber does not receive a signal that meets or exceeds the signal intensity standard in effect under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17, the subscriber shall not be denied the retransmission of a signal of a network station under section 119 of title 17.
      (B) Designation of tester and allocation of costs
         If the satellite carrier and the network station or stations asserting that the retransmission is prohibited are unable to agree on such a person to conduct the test, the person shall be designated by an independent and neutral entity designated by the Commission by rule. Unless the satellite carrier and the network station or stations otherwise agree, the costs of conducting the test under this paragraph shall be borne by the satellite carrier, if the station“s signal meets or exceeds the signal intensity standard in effect under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17, or by the network station, if its signal fails to meet or exceed such standard.
      (C) Avoidance of undue burden
         Commission regulations prescribed under this paragraph shall seek to avoid any undue burden on any party.
    (5) Definition
       Notwithstanding subsection (d)(4) of this section, for purposes of paragraphs (2) and (4) of this subsection, the term ””satellite carrier““ includes a distributor (as defined in section 119(d)(1) of title 17), but only if the satellite distributor“s relationship with the subscriber includes billing, collection, service activation, and service deactivation.
  (d) Definitions
     For the purposes of this section:
    (1) Local market
       The term ””local market““ has the meaning given that term under section 122(j) of title 17.
    (2) Nationally distributed superstation
       The term ””nationally distributed superstation““ means a television broadcast station, licensed by the Commission, that–
      (A) is not owned or operated by or affiliated with a television network that, as of January 1, 1995, offered interconnected program service on a regular basis for 15 or more hours per week to at least 25 affiliated television licensees in 10 or more States;
      (B) on May 1, 1991, was retransmitted by a satellite carrier and was not a network station at that time; and
      (C) was, as of July 1, 1998, retransmitted by a satellite carrier under the statutory license of section 119 of title 17.
    (3) Network station
       The term ””network station““ has the meaning given such term under section 119(d) of title 17.
    (4) Satellite carrier
       The term ””satellite carrier““ has the meaning given such term under section 119(d) of title 17.
    (5) Television network
       The term ””television network““ means a television network in the United States which offers an interconnected program service on a regular basis for 15 or more hours per week to at least 25 affiliated broadcast stations in 10 or more States.
