  (a) Definitions
     In this chapter, the following definitions apply:
    (1) The term ””NTIA““ means the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
    (2) The term ””Assistant Secretary““ means the Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information.
    (3) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Commerce.
    (4) The term ””Commission““ means the Federal Communications Commission.
    (5) The term ””Corporation““ means the Communications Satellite Corporation authorized in title III of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 731 et seq.).
  (b) Findings
     The Congress finds the following:
    (1) Telecommunications and information are vital to the public welfare, national security, and competitiveness of the United States.
    (2) Rapid technological advances being made in the telecommunications and information fields make it imperative that the United States maintain effective national and international policies and programs capable of taking advantage of continued advancements.
    (3) Telecommunications and information policies and recommendations advancing the strategic interests and the international competitiveness of the United States are essential aspects of the Nation“s involvement in international commerce.
    (4) There is a critical need for competent and effective telecommunications and information research and analysis and national and international policy development, advice, and advocacy by the executive branch of the Federal Government.
    (5) As one of the largest users of the Nation“s telecommunications facilities and resources, the Federal Government must manage its radio spectrum use and other internal communications operations in the most efficient and effective manner possible.
    (6) It is in the national interest to codify the authority of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, an agency in the Department of Commerce, as the executive branch agency principally responsible for advising the President on telecommunications and information policies, and for carrying out the related functions it currently performs, as reflected in Executive Order 12046.
  (c) Policy
     The NTIA shall seek to advance the following policies:
    (1) Promoting the benefits of technological development in the United States for all users of telecommunications and information facilities.
    (2) Fostering national safety and security, economic prosperity, and the delivery of critical social services through telecommunications.
    (3) Facilitating and contributing to the full development of competition, efficiency, and the free flow of commerce in domestic and international telecommunications markets.
    (4) Fostering full and efficient use of telecommunications resources, including effective use of the radio spectrum by the Federal Government, in a manner which encourages the most beneficial uses thereof in the public interest.
    (5) Furthering scientific knowledge about telecommunications and information.
