  (a) Interagency functions
    (1) Agency consultation
       Federal agencies shall consult with the Assistant Secretary and the NTIA to ensure that the conduct of telecommunications activities by such agencies is consistent with the policies developed under section 902(b)(2)(K) of this title.
    (2) Report to President
       The Secretary shall timely submit to the President each year the report (including evaluations and recommendations) provided for in section 744(a) \1\N of this title.
    (3) Coordination with Secretary of State
       The Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of State the performance of the functions described in section 902(b)(2)(C) of this title. The Corporation and concerned executive agencies shall provide the Secretary with such assistance, documents, and other cooperation as will enable the Secretary to carry out those functions.
  (b) Advisory committees and informal consultations with industry
     To the extent the Assistant Secretary deems it necessary to continue the Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee, such Committee shall serve as an advisory committee to the Assistant Secretary and the NTIA. As permitted by law, the Assistant Secretary may establish one or more telecommunications or information advisory committees (or both) composed of experts in the telecommunications and/or information areas outside the Government. The NTIA may also informally consult with industry as appropriate to carry out the most effective performance of its functions.
  (c) General provisions
    (1) Regulations
       The Secretary and NTIA shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the functions assigned under this chapter.
    (2) Support and assistance from other agencies
       All executive agencies are authorized and directed to cooperate with the NTIA and to furnish it with such information, support, and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the performance of its functions.
    (3) Effect on vested functions
       Nothing in this chapter reassigns any function that is, on October 27, 1992, vested by law or executive order in the Commission, or the Department of State, or any officer thereof.
  (d) Reorganization
    (1) Authority to reorganize
       Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may reassign to another unit of the Department of Commerce a function (or portion thereof) required to be assigned to the NTIA by section 902(b) of this title.
    (2) Limitation on authority
       The Secretary may not make any reassignment of a function (or portion thereof) required to be assigned to the NTIA by section 902(b) of this title unless the Secretary submits to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a statement describing the proposed reassignment and containing an explanation of the reasons for the reassignment. No reassignment of any such function (or portion thereof) shall be effective until 90 legislative days after the Secretary submits that statement to such Committees. For purposes of this paragraph, the term ””legislative days““ includes only days on which both Houses of Congress are in session.
  (e) Limitation on solicitations
     Notwithstanding section 1522 of title 15, neither the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary, nor any officer or employee of the NTIA shall solicit any gift or bequest of property, both real and personal, from any entity for the purpose of furthering the authorized functions of the NTIA if such solicitation would create a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict of interest.
