  (a) Grants authorized
     The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make grants of not more than $300,000 to each of 9 colleges and universities for the purpose of developing and maintaining Indian psychology career recruitment programs as a means of encouraging Indians to enter the behavioral health field. These programs shall be located at various locations throughout the country to maximize their availability to Indian students and new programs shall be established in different locations from time to time.
  (b) Quentin N. Burdick program grant
     The Secretary shall provide a grant authorized under subsection (a) to develop and maintain a program at the University of North Dakota to be known as the ””Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Psychology Program““. Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible, coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick Indian health programs authorized under section 1616j(b) \1\N of this title, the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program authorized under section 1616h(e) \1\ of this title, and existing university research and communications networks.
  (c) Regulations
     The Secretary shall issue regulations pursuant to this chapter for the competitive awarding of grants provided under this section.
  (d) Conditions of grant
     Applicants under this section shall agree to provide a program which, at a minimum–
    (1) provides outreach and recruitment for health professions to Indian communities including elementary, secondary, and accredited and accessible community colleges that will be served by the program;
    (2) incorporates a program advisory board comprised of representatives from the tribes and communities that will be served by the program;
    (3) provides summer enrichment programs to expose Indian students to the various fields of psychology through research, clinical, and experimental activities;
    (4) provides stipends to undergraduate and graduate students to pursue a career in psychology;
    (5) develops affiliation agreements with tribal colleges and universities, the Service, university affiliated programs, and other appropriate accredited and accessible entities to enhance the education of Indian students;
    (6) to the maximum extent feasible, uses existing university tutoring, counseling, and student support services; and
    (7) to the maximum extent feasible, employs qualified Indians in the program.
  (e) Active duty service requirement
     The active duty service obligation prescribed under section 254m of title 42 shall be met by each graduate who receives a stipend described in subsection (d)(4) that is funded under this section. Such obligation shall be met by service–
    (1) in an Indian health program;
    (2) in a program assisted under subchapter IV; or
    (3) in the private practice of psychology if, as determined by the Secretary, in accordance with guidelines promulgated by the Secretary, such practice is situated in a physician or other health professional shortage area and addresses the health care needs of a substantial number of Indians.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,700,000 for fiscal year 2010 and each fiscal year thereafter.
