  (a) Disregard of Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP payments in determining appropriations
     Any payments received by an Indian health program or by an urban Indian organization under title XVIII, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq., 1396 et seq., 1397aa et seq.] for services provided to Indians eligible for benefits under such respective titles shall not be considered in determining appropriations for the provision of health care and services to Indians.
  (b) Nonpreferential treatment
     Nothing in this chapter authorizes the Secretary to provide services to an Indian with coverage under title XVIII, XIX, or XI \1\N of the Social Security Act in preference to an Indian without such coverage.
  (c) Use of funds
    (1) Special fund
      (A) 100 percent pass-through of payments due to facilities
         Notwithstanding any other provision of law, but subject to paragraph (2), payments to which a facility of the Service is entitled by reason of a provision of title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq., 1396 et seq.] shall be placed in a special fund to be held by the Secretary. In making payments from such fund, the Secretary shall ensure that each Service unit of the Service receives 100 percent of the amount to which the facilities of the Service, for which such Service unit makes collections, are entitled by reason of a provision of either such title.
      (B) Use of funds
         Amounts received by a facility of the Service under subparagraph (A) by reason of a provision of title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act shall first be used (to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts) for the purpose of making any improvements in the programs of the Service operated by or through such facility which may be necessary to achieve or maintain compliance with the applicable conditions and requirements of such respective title. Any amounts so received that are in excess of the amount necessary to achieve or maintain such conditions and requirements shall, subject to consultation with the Indian tribes being served by the Service unit, be used for reducing the health resource deficiencies (as determined in section 1621(c) of this title) of such Indian tribes, including the provision of services pursuant to section 1621d of this title.
    (2) Direct payment option
       Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a tribal health program upon the election of such program under subsection (d) to receive payments directly. No payment may be made out of the special fund described in such paragraph with respect to reimbursement made for services provided by such program during the period of such election.
  (d) Direct billing
    (1) In general
       Subject to complying with the requirements of paragraph (2), a tribal health program may elect to directly bill for, and receive payment for, health care items and services provided by such program for which payment is made under title XVIII, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq., 1396 et seq., 1397aa et seq.] or from any other third party payor.
    (2) Direct reimbursement
      (A) Use of funds
         Each tribal health program making the election described in paragraph (1) with respect to a program under a title of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] shall be reimbursed directly by that program for items and services furnished without regard to subsection (c)(1), except that all amounts so reimbursed shall be used by the tribal health program for the purpose of making any improvements in facilities of the tribal health program that may be necessary to achieve or maintain compliance with the conditions and requirements applicable generally to such items and services under the program under such title and to provide additional health care services, improvements in health care facilities and tribal health programs, any health care-related purpose (including coverage for a service or service within a contract health service delivery area or any portion of a contract health service delivery area that would otherwise be provided as a contract health service), or otherwise to achieve the objectives provided in section 1602 of this title.
      (B) Audits
         The amounts paid to a tribal health program making the election described in paragraph (1) with respect to a program under title XVIII, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act shall be subject to all auditing requirements applicable to the program under such title, as well as all auditing requirements applicable to programs administered by an Indian health program. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed as limiting the application of auditing requirements applicable to amounts paid under title XVIII, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act.
      (C) Identification of source of payments
         Any tribal health program that receives reimbursements or payments under title XVIII, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act shall provide to the Service a list of each provider enrollment number (or other identifier) under which such program receives such reimbursements or payments.
    (3) Examination and implementation of changes
      (A) In general
         The Secretary, acting through the Service and with the assistance of the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, shall examine on an ongoing basis and implement any administrative changes that may be necessary to facilitate direct billing and reimbursement under the program established under this subsection, including any agreements with States that may be necessary to provide for direct billing under a program under title XIX or XXI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq., 1397aa et seq.].
      (B) Coordination of information
         The Service shall provide the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services with copies of the lists submitted to the Service under paragraph (2)(C), enrollment data regarding patients served by the Service (and by tribal health programs, to the extent such data is available to the Service), and such other information as the Administrator may require for purposes of administering title XVIII, XIX, or XXI of the Social Security Act.
    (4) Withdrawal from program
       A tribal health program that bills directly under the program established under this subsection may withdraw from participation in the same manner and under the same conditions that an Indian tribe or tribal organization may retrocede a contracted program to the Secretary under the authority of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.). All cost accounting and billing authority under the program established under this subsection shall be returned to the Secretary upon the Secretary“s acceptance of the withdrawal of participation in this program.
    (5) Termination for failure to comply with requirements
       The Secretary may terminate the participation of a tribal health program or \2\N in the direct billing program established under this subsection if the Secretary determines that the program has failed to comply with the requirements of paragraph (2). The Secretary shall provide a tribal health program with notice of a determination that the program has failed to comply with any such requirement and a reasonable opportunity to correct such noncompliance prior to terminating the program“s participation in the direct billing program established under this subsection.
  (e) Related provisions under the Social Security Act
     For provisions related to subsections (c) and (d), see sections 1880, 1911, and 2107(e)(1)(D) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395qq, 1396j, 1397gg(e)(1)(D)].
