  (a) Findings; purpose
    (1) Findings
       Congress finds that–
      (A) collaborations between the Secretary and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs regarding the treatment of Indian veterans at facilities of the Service should be encouraged to the maximum extent practicable; and
      (B) increased enrollment for services of the Department of Veterans Affairs by veterans who are members of Indian tribes should be encouraged to the maximum extent practicable.
    (2) Purpose
       The purpose of this section is to reaffirm the goals stated in the document entitled ””Memorandum of Understanding Between the VA/Veterans Health Administration And HHS/Indian Health Service““ and dated February 25, 2003 (relating to cooperation and resource sharing between the Veterans Health Administration and Service).
  (b) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Eligible Indian veteran
       The term ””eligible Indian veteran““ means an Indian or Alaska Native veteran who receives any medical service that is–
      (A) authorized under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
      (B) administered at a facility of the Service (including a facility operated by an Indian tribe or tribal organization through a contract or compact with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.)) pursuant to a local memorandum of understanding.
    (2) Local memorandum of understanding
       The term ””local memorandum of understanding““ means a memorandum of understanding between the Secretary (or a designee, including the director of any area office of the Service) and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (or a designee) to implement the document entitled ””Memorandum of Understanding Between the VA/Veterans Health Administration And HHS/Indian Health Service““ and dated February 25, 2003 (relating to cooperation and resource sharing between the Veterans Health Administration and Indian Health Service).
  (c) Eligible Indian veterans expenses
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall provide for veteran-related expenses incurred by eligible Indian veterans as described in subsection (b)(1)(B).
    (2) Method of payment
       The Secretary shall establish such guidelines as the Secretary determines to be appropriate regarding the method of payments to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under paragraph (1).
  (d) Tribal approval of memoranda
     In negotiating a local memorandum of understanding with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs regarding the provision of services to eligible Indian veterans, the Secretary shall consult with each Indian tribe that would be affected by the local memorandum of understanding.
  (e) Funding
    (1) Treatment
       Expenses incurred by the Secretary in carrying out subsection (c)(1) shall not be considered to be Contract Health Service expenses.
    (2) Use of funds
       Of funds made available to the Secretary in appropriations Acts for the Service (excluding funds made available for facilities, Contract Health Services, or contract support costs), the Secretary shall use such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
