  (a) Contracts and grants
     The Secretary, acting through the Service, may enter into contracts with, or make grants to, accredited tribally controlled community colleges, tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions, and eligible community colleges to establish demonstration projects to develop educational curricula for substance abuse counseling.
  (b) Use of funds
     Funds provided under this section shall be used only for developing and providing educational curricula for substance abuse counseling (including paying salaries for instructors). Such curricula may be provided through satellite campus programs.
  (c) Effective period of contract or grant; renewal
     A contract entered into or a grant provided under this section shall be for a period of one year. Such contract or grant may be renewed for an additional one year period upon the approval of the Secretary.
  (d) Criteria for review and approval of applications
     Not later than 180 days after October 29, 1992, the Secretary, after consultation with Indian tribes and administrators of accredited tribally controlled community colleges, tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions, and eligible community colleges, shall develop and issue criteria for the review and approval of applications for funding (including applications for renewals of funding) under this section. Such criteria shall ensure that demonstration projects established under this section promote the development of the capacity of such entities to educate substance abuse counselors.
  (e) Assistance to recipients
     The Secretary shall provide such technical and other assistance as may be necessary to enable grant recipients to comply with the provisions of this section.
  (f) Report
     The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the report which is required to be submitted under section 1671 of this title for fiscal year 1999, a report on the findings and conclusions derived from the demonstration projects conducted under this section.
  (g) Definitions
     For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
    (1) The term ””educational curriculum““ means one or more of the following:
      (A) Classroom education.
      (B) Clinical work experience.
      (C) Continuing education workshops.
    (2) The term ””eligible community college““ means an accredited community college that–
      (i) is located on or near an Indian reservation;
      (ii) has entered into a cooperative agreement with the governing body of such Indian reservation to carry out a demonstration project under this section; and
      (iii) has a student enrollment of not less than 10 percent Indian.
    (3) The term ””tribally controlled community college““ means a community college that is a tribally controlled college or university, as such term is defined in section 1801(a)(4) of this title.
    (4) The term ””tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institution““ has the meaning given such term in section 2397h(2) \1\N of title 20.
  (h) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 1996 through 2000,\2\N such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section. Such sums shall remain available until expended.
