  (a) Contents
     Not later than 1 year after March 23, 2010, the Secretary, acting through the Service, and the Secretary of the Interior shall develop and enter into a memoranda \1\N of agreement, or review and update any existing memoranda of agreement, as required by section 4205 of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2411) under which the Secretaries address the following:
    (1) The scope and nature of mental illness and dysfunctional and self-destructive behavior, including child abuse and family violence, among Indians.
    (2) The existing Federal, tribal, State, local, and private services, resources, and programs available to provide behavioral health services for Indians.
    (3) The unmet need for additional services, resources, and programs necessary to meet the needs identified pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (4)      (A) The right of Indians, as citizens of the United States and of the States in which they reside, to have access to behavioral health services to which all citizens have access.
      (B) The right of Indians to participate in, and receive the benefit of, such services.
      (C) The actions necessary to protect the exercise of such right.
    (5) The responsibilities of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service, including mental illness identification, prevention, education, referral, and treatment services (including services through multidisciplinary resource teams), at the central, area, and agency and Service unit, Service area, and headquarters levels to address the problems identified in paragraph (1).
    (6) A strategy for the comprehensive coordination of the behavioral health services provided by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service to meet the problems identified pursuant to paragraph (1), including–
      (A) the coordination of alcohol and substance abuse programs of the Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and Indian tribes and tribal organizations (developed under the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.)) with behavioral health initiatives pursuant to this chapter, particularly with respect to the referral and treatment of dually diagnosed individuals requiring behavioral health and substance abuse treatment; and
      (B) ensuring that the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Service programs and services (including multidisciplinary resource teams) addressing child abuse and family violence are coordinated with such non-Federal programs and services.
    (7) Directing appropriate officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service, particularly at the agency and Service unit levels, to cooperate fully with tribal requests made pursuant to community behavioral health plans adopted under section 1665a(c) of this title and section 4206 of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2412).
    (8) Providing for an annual review of such agreement by the Secretaries which shall be provided to Congress and Indian tribes and tribal organizations.
  (b) Specific provisions required
     The memoranda of agreement updated or entered into pursuant to subsection (a) shall include specific provisions pursuant to which the Service shall assume responsibility for–
    (1) the determination of the scope of the problem of alcohol and substance abuse among Indians, including the number of Indians within the jurisdiction of the Service who are directly or indirectly affected by alcohol and substance abuse and the financial and human cost;
    (2) an assessment of the existing and needed resources necessary for the prevention of alcohol and substance abuse and the treatment of Indians affected by alcohol and substance abuse; and
    (3) an estimate of the funding necessary to adequately support a program of prevention of alcohol and substance abuse and treatment of Indians affected by alcohol and substance abuse.
  (c) Publication
     Each memorandum of agreement entered into or renewed (and amendments or modifications thereto) under subsection (a) shall be published in the Federal Register. At the same time as publication in the Federal Register, the Secretary shall provide a copy of such memoranda, amendment, or modification to each Indian tribe, tribal organization, and urban Indian organization.
