  (a) Long-term care
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary, acting through the Service, is authorized to provide directly, or enter into contracts or compacts under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) with Indian tribes or tribal organizations for, the delivery of long-term care (including health care services associated with long-term care) provided in a facility to Indians.
    (2) Inclusions
       Each agreement under paragraph (1) shall provide for the sharing of staff or other services between the Service or a tribal health program and a long-term care or related facility owned and operated (directly or through a contract or compact under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.)) by the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
  (b) Contents of agreements
     An agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (a)–
    (1) may, at the request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, delegate to the Indian tribe or tribal organization such powers of supervision and control over Service employees as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section;
    (2) shall provide that expenses (including salaries) relating to services that are shared between the Service and the tribal health program be allocated proportionately between the Service and the Indian tribe or tribal organization; and
    (3) may authorize the Indian tribe or tribal organization to construct, renovate, or expand a long-term care or other similar facility (including the construction of a facility attached to a Service facility).
  (c) Minimum requirement
     Any nursing facility provided for under this section shall meet the requirements for nursing facilities under section 1396r of title 42.
  (d) Other assistance
     The Secretary shall provide such technical and other assistance as may be necessary to enable applicants to comply with this section.
  (e) Use of existing or underused facilities
     The Secretary shall encourage the use of existing facilities that are underused, or allow the use of swing beds, for long-term or similar care.
