   For purposes of this subchapter–
  (1) The term ””Miccosukee Tribe““ means the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, a tribe of American Indians recognized by the United States and organized under section 476 of this title and recognized by the State of Florida pursuant to chapter 285, Florida Statutes.
  (2) The term ””State of Florida““ means the State of Florida, its agencies, political subdivisions, constitutional officers, officials of its agencies and subdivisions, and the South Florida Water Management District.
  (3) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (4) The term ””lands or natural resources““ means any real property or natural resources, or any interest in or right involving any real property or natural resources including but not limited to minerals and mineral rights, timber and timber rights, water and water rights, and rights to hunt and fish.
  (5) The term ””lawsuit““ means the action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, entitled Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida against State of Florida, et al., Case No. 79–253–CIV–JWK.
  (6) The term ””Lease Agreement““ means that perpetual lease granted by the State of Florida to the Miccosukee Tribe, involving a specifically described area in South Florida, title to which is held by the State of Florida and in which the Miccosukee Tribe is granted certain express rights and interests.
  (7) The term ””settlement funds““ means those amounts of money which the State of Florida has agreed to pay to the Miccosukee Tribe under the Settlement Agreement in partial consideration for the settlement of the lawsuit and the extinguishment of rights to all potential or unsettled claims which the Miccosukee Tribe may have to lands or natural resources in the State of Florida.
  (8) The term ””Settlement Agreement““ means those documents entitled ””Settlement Agreement between the Miccosukee Tribe and the State of Florida““ executed on April 16, 1982, by representatives of the State of Florida and representatives of the Miccosukee Tribe and filed with the secretary of state of the State of Florida which incorporate the Lease Agreement described in paragraph (6) of this section.
  (9) The term ””transfer““ includes but is not limited to any sale, grant, lease, allotment, partition, or conveyance, any transaction the purpose of which was to effect a sale, grant, lease, allotment, partition, or conveyance, or any event or events that resulted in a change of possession or control of lands or natural resources.
