   In this part:
  (1) Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvements Trust Fund
     The term ””Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvements Trust Fund““ means the agency of the State of Florida holding legal title to and responsible for trust administration of certain lands of the State of Florida, consisting of the Governor, Attorney General, Commissioner of Agriculture, Commissioner of Education, Controller, Secretary of State, and Treasurer of the State of Florida, who are Trustees of the Board.
  (2) Florida Department of Transportation
     The term ””Florida Department of Transportation““ means the executive branch department and agency of the State of Florida that–
    (A) is responsible for the construction and maintenance of surface vehicle roads, existing pursuant to section 20.23, Florida Statutes; and
    (B) has the authority to execute the Settlement Agreement pursuant to section 334.044, Florida Statutes.
  (3) Lawsuit
     The term ””lawsuit““ means the action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, entitled Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida v. State of Florida and Florida Department of Transportation, et al., docket No. 6285–Civ–Paine.
  (4) Miccosukee lands
     The term ””Miccosukee lands““ means lands that are–
    (A) held in trust by the United States for the use and benefit of the Miccosukee Tribe as Miccosukee Indian Reservation lands; and
    (B) identified pursuant to the Settlement Agreement for transfer to the Florida Department of Transportation.
  (5) Miccosukee Tribe; Tribe
     The terms ””Miccosukee Tribe““ and ””Tribe““ mean the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, a tribe of American Indians recognized by the United States and organized under section 476 of this title and recognized by the State of Florida pursuant to chapter 285, Florida Statutes.
  (6) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (7) Settlement Agreement; Agreement
     The terms ””Settlement Agreement““ and ””Agreement““ mean the assemblage of documents entitled ””Settlement Agreement““ (with incorporated exhibits) that–
    (A) addresses the lawsuit; and
    (B)      (i) was signed on August 28, 1996, by Ben G. Watts (Secretary of the Florida Department of Transportation) and Billy Cypress (Chairman of the Miccosukee Tribe); and
      (ii) after being signed, as described in clause (i), was concurred in by the Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvements Trust Fund of the State of Florida.
  (8) State of Florida
     The term ””State of Florida““ means–
    (A) all agencies or departments of the State of Florida, including the Florida Department of Transportation and the Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvements Trust Fund; and
    (B) the State of Florida as a governmental entity.
