  (a) Purchase of private settlement lands
     The Secretary is authorized and directed to expend, at the request of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., $2,125,000 to acquire the private settlement lands. At the request of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., the Secretary shall not purchase lots 705, 222, and 528 of the private settlement lands, but, at the request of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., the Secretary shall acquire in lieu thereof such other lands that are contiguous to the remaining private settlement lands. Upon the purchase of such contiguous lands, those lands shall be subject to the same restrictions and benefits as the private settlement lands.
  (b) Payment for survey and appraisal
     The Secretary is authorized and directed to cause a survey of the public settlement lands to be made within 60 days of acquiring title to the public settlement lands. The Secretary shall reimburse the Native American Rights Fund and the Gay Head Taxpayers Association for an appraisal of the private settlement lands done by Paul O“Leary dated May 1, 1987. Such funds as may be necessary may be withdrawn from the Fund \1\N established in section 1771a(a) of this title and may be used for the purpose of conducting the survey and providing reimbursement for the appraisal.
  (c) Acquisition of additional lands
     The Secretary shall expend, at the request of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., any remaining funds not required by subsection (a) or (b) of this section to acquire any additional lands that are contiguous to the private settlement lands. Any lands acquired pursuant to this section, and any other lands which are on and after August 12, 1987, held in trust for the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., any successor, or individual member, shall be subject to this subchapter, the Settlement Agreement and other applicable laws. Any after acquired land held in trust for the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., any successor, or individual member, shall be subject to the same benefits and restrictions as apply to the most analogous land use described in the Settlement Agreement.
  (d) Transfer and survey of land to Wampanoag Tribal Council
     Any right, title, or interest to lands acquired by the Secretary under this section, and the title to public settlement lands conveyed by the town of Gay Head, shall be held in trust for the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. and shall be subject to this subchapter, the Settlement Agreement, and other applicable laws.
  (e) Proceedings authorized to acquire or to perfect title
     The Secretary is authorized to commence such condemnation proceedings as the Secretary may determine to be necessary–
    (1) to acquire or perfect any right, title, or interest in any private settlement land, and
    (2) to condemn any interest adverse to any ostensible owner of such land.
  (f) Public settlement lands held in trust
     The Secretary is authorized to accept and hold in trust for the benefit of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. the public settlement lands as described in section 1771f(7) of this title immediately upon the effective date of this Act.
  (g) Application
     The terms of this section shall apply to land in the town of Gay Head. Any land acquired by the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., that is located outside the town of Gay Head shall be subject to all the civil and criminal laws, ordinances, and jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
  (h) Spending authority
     Any spending authority (as defined in section 651(c)(2) of title 2) provided in this section shall be effective for any fiscal year only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts.
