  (a) Approval of Settlement Agreement; effect of approval
    (1) Effective on December 31, 1987, the Congress does hereby approve the Settlement Agreement, including the compact, and any exhibits attached thereto.
    (2) Subject to the provisions of section 1772b of this title, the Secretary shall publish findings required by section 1772b of this title and the Settlement Agreement in the Federal Register, and upon such publication–
      (A) the transfers, waivers, releases, relinquishments and other commitments made by the tribe in the Settlement Agreement with the State and the district, including the compact provided for in the Settlement Agreement, shall be in full force and effect on the terms and conditions stated in such settlement, and
      (B) the transfers, waivers, releases, relinquishments and other commitments validated by subparagraph (A) and the transfers and extinguishments approved and validated by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of this section shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with the Constitution and all laws of the United States that are specifically applicable to transfers of lands or natural resources from, by, or on behalf of any Indian, Indian nation, or tribe of Indians including but not limited to the Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790, Act of July 22, 1790 (25 U.S.C. 177, ch. 33, sec. 4, 1 Stat. 137).
  (b) Extinguishment of claims based on aboriginal title
    (1)      (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), all claims to lands within the State based upon aboriginal title by the tribe or any predecessor or successor in interest, are hereby extinguished. Any transfer of lands or natural resources located anywhere within the State, including transfers pursuant to a statute or treaty with any State or the United States, by, from, or on behalf of the tribe or any predecessor or successor in interest, shall be deemed to be in full force and effect, as provided in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
      (B) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as extinguishing any aboriginal right, title, interest, or claim to lands or natural resources solely to the extent of the rights or interests defined as ””excepted interests““ in paragraph 4a of the Settlement Agreement between the tribe, State and the district.
    (2)      (A) By virtue of the approval of a transfer of lands or natural resources effected by this section, or an extinguishment of aboriginal title effected thereby, all claims against the United States, the State or subdivision thereof, or any other person or entity, by the tribe or any predecessor or successor in interest, arising subsequent to the transfer and based upon any interest in or right involving such lands or natural resources, including claims for trespass damages or claims for use and occupancy, shall be extinguished as of the date of the transfer.
      (B) The United States shall not be liable directly or indirectly for any claim or cause of action arising from the approval of the Settlement Agreement and compact or exhibits attached thereto.
    (3) Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as extinguishing any right, title, interest, or claim to lands or natural resources in the State based on use and occupancy or acquired under Federal or State law by any individual Indian which is not derived from or through the tribe, its predecessor or predecessors in interest, or some other American Indian tribe.
    (4) Any Indian, Indian nation, or tribe of Indians, other than the Seminole Tribe as defined in section 1772a(1) of this title, or any predecessor or successor in interest, or any member thereof, whose transfer of lands or natural resources is approved or whose aboriginal title or claims is extinguished by paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection may, within a period of one year after publication of the Secretary“s finding pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, bring an action against the State and the United States in the United States District Court for the southern district of Florida. Such action shall be in lieu of a suit against any other person, agency, or political subdivision on a cause of action which may have existed in the absence of this subsection.
  (c) Construction of subsection (a) and section 1772e
     Neither subsection (a) of this section nor section 1772e of this title–
    (1) enacts present or future laws of the State as Federal law,
    (2) grants consent to any future changes in the Settlement Agreement or compact that could impose any obligation or liability on the United States, or
    (3) commits the United States to finance any project or activity not otherwise authorized by Federal law.
