  (a) Payment to individual members
    (1) To the extent provided in advance in appropriation Acts or to the extent funds are provided by other parties to the Settlement Agreement, the Secretary shall place with a financial institution the amount of $24,000,000 in an annuity fund or other investment program (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the ””fund““). The selection of the institution or institutions where the funds will be held and the administration of the funds shall be in accordance with section II of the Settlement Agreement and documents 2 and 3 of the Technical Documents. Amounts earned pursuant to any investment of the fund shall be added to, and become part of, the fund.
    (2) Upon attaining the age of 21 years, each enrolled member of the Tribe (determined by the Tribe pursuant to its constitution to have been a member as of the date of ratification of the Settlement Agreement by the Tribe) shall receive a one-time payment from the fund. The amount of such payment shall be determined in accordance with section II of the Settlement Agreement and document 2 of the Technical Documents.
    (3) A reasonable and customary fee for the administration of the fund may be paid out of the income earned by the fund to the financial institution with which the fund is established.
    (4) Upon payment to all eligible members of the Tribe pursuant to paragraph (2), any amount remaining in the fund shall be utilized in the manner determined by a vote of the members of the Tribe.
    (5) There is authorized to be appropriated $22,350,000 for the Federal share of the fund.
  (b) Permanent trust fund for tribal members
    (1) In order to provide a permanent resource to enhance the ability of the Tribe to provide services to its members, there is established the Puyallup Tribe of Indians Settlement Trust Fund (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the ””trust fund““).
    (2) Upon appropriation by Congress or to the extent funds are provided by other parties to the Settlement Agreement, the Secretary shall deposit $22,000,000 into the trust fund. The trust fund shall be invested in accordance with section 162a of this title, so as to earn the maximum interest on principal and interest available under that section. No part of the $22,000,000 principal may be expended for any purpose. Income earned on the principal or interest of the trust fund shall be available for expenditure as provided in paragraph (3).
    (3)      (A) The trust fund shall be administered and the funds shall be expended in accordance with section III of the Settlement Agreement and document 3 of the Technical Documents. Income from the trust fund may be used only for the following purposes unless modified in accordance with subparagraph (B):
        (i) Housing.
        (ii) Elderly needs.
        (iii) Burial and cemetery maintenance.
        (iv) Education and cultural preservation.
        (v) Supplemental health care.
        (vi) Day care.
        (vii) Other social services.
      (B) The purposes of the trust fund may be modified only as provided in document 3 of the Technical Documents.
    (4) The fund established under this subsection shall be in perpetuity and inviolate.
    (5) There is authorized to be appropriated $18,800,000 for the Federal share of the trust fund.
