  (a) In general
     In recognition of the findings and purposes specified in section 1774 of this title, the settlement funds provided pursuant to this subchapter shall be provided by the United States and the State. The Secretary may not obligate or expend funds provided under subsection (b) of this section until the Secretary determines that there is an agreed upon and signed memorandum of understanding.
  (b) Funds provided by United States
    (1) Cash payment
       The Secretary shall pay to the Seneca Nation the amount of $30,000,000, which is the Federal share of the cash payment to be managed, invested, and used by the Nation to further specific objectives of the Nation and its members, all as determined by the Nation in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the Nation.
    (2) Economic development
      (A) In addition to the amount provided under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall pay to the Seneca Nation the amount of $5,000,000 to be used for the economic and community development of the Seneca Nation, including the city of Salamanca, which is an integral part of the Seneca Nation“s Allegany Reservation. Such amount shall be deposited by the Secretary, administered, and disbursed in accordance with subparagraph (B).
      (B)        (i) The sum of $2,000,000 shall be deposited in a separate interest bearing account of the Seneca Nation. The account shall be administered, and the principal and interest thereon disbursed, by the Seneca Nation in accordance with a plan approved by the Council of the Seneca Nation to promote the economic and community development of the Seneca Nation. Until the principal is expended pursuant to such plan, the income accruing from such sum shall be disbursed to the treasurer of the Seneca Nation on a quarterly basis to fund tribal government operations and to provide for the general welfare of the Seneca Nation and its members. The Seneca Nation may in its discretion add the accrued income to the principal.
        (ii) The sum of $3,000,000 shall be deposited in an escrow account which shall be owned by the Seneca Nation. The escrow agent shall be selected by agreement of the Seneca Nation and the city. The escrow account shall remain in existence for a period of ten years from the date on which the principal is deposited or until all payments provided for under section V.D. of the Agreement have been made. The escrow account shall be held and disbursed for economic and community development as set forth in section V.D. of the Agreement. Upon the expiration of the ten-year period, the $3,000,000 principal shall be disbursed in accordance with a plan approved by the Council of the Seneca Nation to promote the economic and community development of the Seneca Nation.
  (c) Funds to be provided by State
     The State, in accordance with its laws and regulations, shall provide the sum of $16,000,000 in cash payments and $9,000,000 for economic or community development subject to the provisions of the memorandum of understanding.
  (d) Time of payments
     The payments required by this section on the part of the United States shall be made within 30 days of the Secretary“s determination that the Seneca Nation has complied with section 1774b of this title, or upon the availability of the amounts necessary to carry out this subchapter, if such determination has previously been made. If the Secretary determines that the Seneca Nation has not complied with section 1774b of this title, he shall advise the Seneca Nation in writing of all steps it must take to comply.
  (e) Limitation
     The only amounts available to carry out this subchapter shall be those amounts specifically appropriated by the Congress or the legislature of the State to carry out this subchapter.
