  (a) Eligibility for assistance
     Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, eligibility for assistance under this subchapter shall not, by itself, preclude the eligibility of any tribally controlled college or university to receive Federal financial assistance under any program authorized under the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.] or any other applicable program for the benefit of institutions of higher education, community colleges, or postsecondary educational institutions.
  (b) Allocations from Bureau of Indian Affairs
    (1) The amount of any grant for which tribally controlled colleges or universities are eligible under section 1808 of this title shall not be altered because of funds allocated to any such colleges or universities from funds appropriated under section 13 of this title.
    (2) No tribally controlled college or university shall be denied funds appropriated under section 13 of this title because of the funds it receives under this chapter.
    (3) No tribally controlled college or university for which a tribe has designated a portion of the funds appropriated for the tribe from funds appropriated under section 13 of this title may be denied a contract for such portion under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) (except as provided in that Act), or denied appropriate contract support to administer such portion of the appropriated funds.
  (c) \1\N Assistance deemed to be basic educational opportunity grant
     For the purposes of sections 312(2)(A)(i) and 322(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1058(2)(A)(i), 1061(a)(2)(A)(i)],\2\N any Indian student who receives a student assistance grant from the Bureau of Indian Affairs for postsecondary education shall be deemed to have received such assistance under subpart 1 of part A of title IV of such Act [20 U.S.C. 1070a].
  (c) \1\ Treatment of funds under certain Federal laws
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds provided under this subchapter to the tribally controlled college or university may be treated as non-Federal, private funds of the college or university for purposes of any provision of Federal law which requires that non-Federal or private funds of the college or university be used in a project or for a specific purpose.
