   For purposes of this chapter–
  (1) The term ””agency““ means the local administrative entity of the Bureau of Indian Affairs serving one or more Indian tribes within a defined geographic area.
  (2) The term ””youth““ shall have the meaning given it in any particular Tribal Action Plan adopted pursuant to section 2411 of this title, except that, for purposes of statistical reporting under this chapter, it shall mean a person who is 19 years or younger or who is in attendance at a secondary school.
  (3) The term ””Indian tribe““ means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians (including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)) which is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
  (4) The term ””prevention and treatment““ includes, as appropriate–
    (A) efforts to identify, and the identification of, Indians who are at risk with respect to, or who are abusers of, alcohol or controlled substances,
    (B) intervention into cases of on-going alcohol and substance abuse to halt a further progression of such abuse,
    (C) prevention through education and the provision of alternative activities,
    (D) treatment for alcohol and substance abusers to help abstain from, and alleviate the effects of, abuse,
    (E) rehabilitation to provide on-going assistance, either on an inpatient or outpatient basis, to help Indians reform or abstain from alcohol or substance abuse,
    (F) follow-up or after-care to provide the appropriate counseling and assistance on an outpatient basis, and
    (G) referral to other sources of assistance or resources.
  (5) The term ””service unit““ means an administrative entity within the Indian Health Service or a tribe or tribal organization operating health care programs or facilities with funds from the Indian Health Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.] through which the services are provided, directly or by contract, to the eligible Indian population within a defined geographic area.
  (6) The terms ””Urban Indian““, ””Urban Center““, and ””Urban Indian Organization““ shall have the same meaning as provided in section 1603 of this title.
