  (a) In general
     The grant provided under this chapter to an Indian tribe or tribal organization for any fiscal year shall consist of–
    (1) the total amount of funds allocated for such fiscal year under sections 1127 and 1128 of the Education Amendments of 1978 [25 U.S.C. 2007, 2008] with respect to the tribally controlled schools eligible for assistance under this chapter which are operated by such Indian tribe or tribal organization, including, but not limited to, funds provided under such sections, or under any other provision of law, for transportation costs;
    (2) to the extent requested by such Indian tribe or tribal organization, the total amount of funds provided from operations and maintenance accounts and, notwithstanding section 450j of this title, or any other provision of law, other facilities accounts for such schools for such fiscal year (including but not limited to those referenced under section 1126(d) of the Education Amendments of 1978 [25 U.S.C. 2006(d)] or any other law); and
    (3) the total amount of funds that are allocated to such schools for such fiscal year under–
      (A) title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.];
      (B) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.]; and
      (C) any other Federal education law, that are allocated to such schools for such fiscal year.\1\N
  (b) Special rules
    (1) In general
      (A) Applicability of certain laws
         Funds allocated to a tribally controlled school by reason of paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) of this section shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and shall not be subject to any additional restriction, priority, or limitation that is imposed by the Bureau with respect to funds provided under–
        (i) title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.];
        (ii) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.]; or
        (iii) any Federal education law other than title XI of the Education Amendments of 1978 [25 U.S.C. 2000 et seq.].
      (B) Applicability of Bureau provisions
         Indian tribes and tribal organizations to which grants are provided under this chapter, and tribally controlled schools for which such grants are provided, shall not be subject to any requirements, obligations, restrictions, or limitations imposed by the Bureau that would otherwise apply solely by reason of the receipt of funds provided under any law referred to in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A).
    (2) Schools considered contract schools
       Tribally controlled schools for which grants are provided under this chapter shall be treated as contract schools for the purposes of allocation of funds under sections 1126(e), 1127, and 1128 of the Education Amendments of 1978 [25 U.S.C. 2006(e), 2007, 2008].
    (3) Schools considered Bureau schools
       Tribally controlled schools for which grants are provided under this chapter shall be treated as Bureau schools for the purposes of allocation of funds provided under–
      (A) title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.];
      (B) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.]; and
      (C) any other Federal education law, that are distributed through the Bureau.
    (4) Accounts; use of certain funds
      (A) Separate account
        (i) In general
           Notwithstanding section 2503(a)(2) \2\N of this title, with respect to funds from facilities improvement and repair, alteration and renovation (major or minor), health and safety, or new construction accounts included in the grant provided under section 2503(a) \2\ of this title, the grant recipient shall maintain a separate account for such funds.
        (ii) Submission of accounting
           At the end of the period designated for the work covered by the funds received, the grant recipient shall submit to the Secretary a separate accounting of the work done and the funds expended.
        (iii) Use of funds
           Funds received from those accounts may only be used for the purpose for which the funds were appropriated and for the work encompassed by the application or submission for which the funds were received.
        (iv) Completion of project
           Upon completion of a project for which a separate account is established under this paragraph, the portion of the grant related to such project may be closed out upon agreement by the grantee and the Secretary.
      (B) Requirements for projects
        (i) Regulatory requirements
           With respect to a grant to a tribally controlled school under this chapter for new construction or facilities improvements and repair in excess of $100,000, such grant shall be subject to the Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs contained in part 12 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations.
        (ii) Exception
           Notwithstanding clause (i), grants described in such clause shall not be subject to section 12.61 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations. The Secretary and the grantee shall negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work to be performed.
        (iii) Applications
           In considering applications for a grant described in clause (i), the Secretary shall consider whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization involved would be deficient in ensuring that the construction projects under the proposed grant conform to applicable building standards and codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as required under section 1124 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2005(a)) \3\N with respect to organizational and financial management capabilities.
        (iv) Disputes
           Any disputes between the Secretary and any grantee concerning a grant described in clause (i) shall be subject to the dispute provisions contained in section 2508(e) \4\N of this title.
      (C) New construction
         Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), a school receiving a grant under this chapter for facilities improvement and repair may use such grant funds for new construction if the tribal governing body or tribal organization that submits the application for the grant provides funding for the new construction equal to at least 25 percent of the total cost of such new construction.
      (D) Period
         In a case in which the appropriations measure under which the funds described in subparagraph (A) are made available or the application submitted for the funds does not stipulate a period for the work covered by the funds, the Secretary and the grant recipient shall consult and determine such a period prior to the transfer of the funds. A period so determined may be extended upon mutual agreement of the Secretary and the grant recipient.
    (5) Enforcement of request to include funds
      (A) In general
         If the Secretary fails to carry out a request filed by an Indian tribe or tribal organization to include in such tribe \5\N or organization“s grant under this chapter the funds described in subsection (a)(2) of this section within 180 days after the filing of the request, the Secretary shall–
        (i) be deemed to have approved such request; and
        (ii) immediately upon the expiration of such 180-day period amend the grant accordingly.
      (B) Rights
         A tribe or organization described in subparagraph (A) may enforce its rights under subsection (a)(2) of this section and this paragraph, including rights relating to any denial or failure to act on such tribe“s or organization“s request, pursuant to the dispute authority described in section 2508(e) \4\ of this title.
