  (a) Institutional support
    (1) In general
       The Secretary of Education is authorized to award grants to tribally controlled postsecondary, vocational and technical institutions for the purposes of–
      (A) developing teacher training programs;
      (B) building articulation agreements between such institutions and other institutions of higher education as defined in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1141(a)]; and
      (C) basic strengthening of tribally controlled community colleges, as defined in section 1801(a)(4) of this title.
    (2) Use of grants
       Grants awarded under this subsection shall be for the purpose of providing upper division course work, transfer programs, articulation agreements (similar to those under part D \1\N of title I of the Higher Education Act of 1965) with other accredited institutions, telecommunications programs or other mechanisms which directly support the training of American Indian teachers.
  (b) Student support grants
    (1) In general
       The Secretary of Education is authorized to award grants to institutions that have developed teacher training programs under subsection (a) of this section for the purpose of providing financial and programmatic support to American Indian students seeking to participate in such institutions“ teacher training programs.
    (2) Use of grants
       Institutions receiving grants under this section shall require recipients of grants under this subsection to serve as teachers in an Indian community for 1 year for each year of scholarship support received.
    (3) Eligibility
       Students eligible to receive support grants shall include those who have completed at least 30 hours of postsecondary education and who intend to pursue a 4-year degree.
    (4) Work requirement
       Students who fail to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (2) shall be required to repay a pro rata portion of the total amount of scholarships awarded under this subchapter if the student worked for less than the required time period described in such paragraph.
  (c) Scholarships
    (1) Authority
       The Secretary of Education is authorized to provide scholarship assistance to American Indian students who seek to become teachers and who–
      (A) agree to serve as teachers in an Indian community for 1 year for each year of scholarship support received, and
      (B) have completed at least 30 hours of postsecondary education.
    (2) Work requirement
       Students who fail to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (1) shall be required to repay a pro rata portion of the total amount of scholarships awarded under this subchapter if the student worked for less than the required time period described in paragraph (1)(B).
  (d) ””Indian““ defined
     For purposes of this subchapter, the term ””Indian““ has the same meaning given such term in section 450b(d) of this title.
  (e) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years to carry out this subchapter.
