   In this chapter:
  (1) The term ””Director““ means the Director of the Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs, Department of Energy.
  (2) The term ””Indian land““ means–
    (A) any land located within the boundaries of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria;
    (B) any land not located within the boundaries of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria, the title to which is held–
      (i) in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian tribe or an individual Indian;
      (ii) by an Indian tribe or an individual Indian, subject to restriction against alienation under laws of the United States; or
      (iii) by a dependent Indian community; and
    (C) land that is owned by an Indian tribe and was conveyed by the United States to a Native Corporation pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), or that was conveyed by the United States to a Native Corporation in exchange for such land.
  (3) The term ””Indian reservation““ includes–
    (A) an Indian reservation in existence in any State or States as of August 8, 2005;
    (B) a public domain Indian allotment; and
    (C) a dependent Indian community located within the borders of the United States, regardless of whether the community is located–
      (i) on original or acquired territory of the community; or
      (ii) within or outside the boundaries of any State or States.
  (4)    (A) The term ””Indian tribe““ has the meaning given the term in section 450b of this title.
    (B) For the purpose of paragraph (12) and sections 3503(b)(1)(C) and 3504 of this title, the term ””Indian tribe““ does not include any Native Corporation.
  (5) The term ””integration of energy resources““ means any project or activity that promotes the location and operation of a facility (including any pipeline, gathering system, transportation system or facility, or electric transmission or distribution facility) on or near Indian land to process, refine, generate electricity from, or otherwise develop energy resources on, Indian land.
  (6) The term ””Native Corporation““ has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
  (7) The term ””organization““ means a partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other unincorporated association or entity that is established to develop Indian energy resources.
  (8) The term ””Program““ means the Indian energy resource development program established under section 3502(a) of this title.
  (9) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (10) The term ””sequestration““ means the long-term separation, isolation, or removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, including through a biological or geologic method such as reforestation or an underground reservoir.
  (11) The term ””tribal energy resource development organization““ means an organization of two or more entities, at least one of which is an Indian tribe, that has the written consent of the governing bodies of all Indian tribes participating in the organization to apply for a grant, loan, or other assistance under section 3502 of this title.
  (12) The term ””tribal land““ means any land or interests in land owned by any Indian tribe, title to which is held in trust by the United States, or is subject to a restriction against alienation under laws of the United States.
