  (a) Demonstration programs
     The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall establish and implement a demonstration program to assist Indian tribes in pursuing energy self-sufficiency and to promote the development of a vertically integrated energy industry on Indian reservations, in order to increase development of the substantial energy resources located on such Indian reservations. Such program shall include, but not be limited to, the following components:
    (1) The Secretary shall provide development grants to Indian tribes or to joint ventures which are 51 percent or more controlled by an Indian tribe to assist Indian tribes in obtaining the managerial and technical capability needed to develop the energy resources on Indian reservations. Such grants shall include provisions for management training for tribal or village members, improving the technical capacity of the Indian tribe, and the reduction of tribal unemployment. Each grant shall be for a period of 3 years.
    (2) The Secretary shall provide grants, not to exceed 50 percent of the project costs, for vertical integration projects. For purposes of this paragraph, the term ””vertical integration project““ means a project that promotes the vertical integration of the energy resources on an Indian reservation, so that the energy resources are used or processed on such Indian reservation. Such term includes, but is not limited to, projects involving solar and wind energy, oil refineries, the generation and transmission of electricity, hydroelectricity, cogeneration, natural gas distribution, and clean, innovative uses of coal.
    (3) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance (and such other assistance as is appropriate) to Indian tribes for energy resource development and to promote the vertical integration of energy resources on Indian reservations.
  (b) Low interest loans
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall establish a program for making low interest loans to Indian tribes. Such loans shall be used exclusively by Indian tribes in the promotion of energy resource development and vertical integration on Indian reservations.
    (2) Terms
       The Secretary shall establish reasonable terms for loans made under this section which are to be used to carry out the purposes of this section.
  (c) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated–
    (1) $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out the purposes of subsection (a)(1) of this section;
    (2) $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out the purposes of subsection (a)(2) of this section; and
    (3) $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out the purposes of subsection (b) of this section.
