  (a) Review and notice
    (1) Review
       The Secretary shall conduct a limited review of each Indian housing plan submitted to the Secretary to ensure that the plan complies with the requirements of section 4112 of this title. The Secretary shall have the discretion to review a plan only to the extent that the Secretary considers review is necessary.
    (2) Notice
       The Secretary shall notify each Indian tribe for which a plan is submitted and any tribally designated housing entity for the tribe whether the plan complies with such requirements not later than 60 days after receiving the plan. If the Secretary does not notify the Indian tribe, as required under this subsection and subsection (b) of this section, the plan shall be considered, for purposes of this chapter, to have been determined to comply with the requirements under section 4112 of this title and the tribe shall be considered to have been notified of compliance upon the expiration of such 60-day period.
  (b) Notice of reasons for determination of noncompliance
     If the Secretary determines that a plan, as submitted, does not comply with the requirements under section 4112 of this title, the Secretary shall specify in the notice under subsection (a) of this section the reasons for the noncompliance and any modifications necessary for the plan to meet the requirements under section 4112 of this title.
  (c) Review
     After submission of the Indian housing plan or any amendment or modification to the plan to the Secretary, to the extent that the Secretary considers such action to be necessary to make determinations under this subsection, the Secretary shall review the plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto) to determine whether the contents of the plan–
    (1) set forth the information required by section 4112 of this title to be contained in an Indian housing plan;
    (2) are consistent with information and data available to the Secretary; and
    (3) are not prohibited by or inconsistent with any provision of this chapter or other applicable law.
       If the Secretary determines that any of the appropriate certifications required under section 4112(c)(5) of this title are not included in the plan, the plan shall be deemed to be incomplete.
  (d) Updates to plan
     After a plan under section 4112 of this title has been submitted for an Indian tribe for any fiscal year, the tribe may comply with the provisions of such section for any succeeding fiscal year (with respect to information included for the 5-year period under section 4112(b) of this title or the 1-year period under section 4112(c) of this title) by submitting only such information regarding such changes as may be necessary to update the plan previously submitted. Not less than once every 5 years, the tribe shall submit a complete plan.
  (e) Effective date
     This section and section 4112 of this title shall take effect on the date provided by the Secretary pursuant to section 4116(a) of this title to provide for timely submission and review of Indian housing plans as necessary for the provision of assistance under this chapter in fiscal year 1998.
