  (a) Rents
    (1) Establishment
       Subject to paragraph (2), each recipient shall develop written policies governing rents and homebuyer payments charged for dwelling units assisted under this chapter, including the methods by which such rents and homebuyer payments are determined.
    (2) Maximum rent
       In the case of any low-income family residing in a dwelling unit assisted with grant amounts under this chapter, the monthly rent or homebuyer payment (as applicable) for such dwelling unit may not exceed 30 percent of the monthly adjusted income of such family.
  (b) Maintenance and efficient operation
     Each recipient who owns or operates (or is responsible for funding any entity that owns or operates) housing developed or operated pursuant to a contract between the Secretary and an Indian housing authority pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.] shall, using amounts of any grants received under this chapter, reserve and use for operating assistance under section 4132(1) of this title such amounts as may be necessary to provide for the continued maintenance and efficient operation of such housing. This subsection may not be construed to prevent any recipient (or entity funded by a recipient) from demolishing or disposing of Indian housing referred to in this subsection, pursuant to regulations established by the Secretary.
  (c) Insurance coverage
     Each recipient shall maintain adequate insurance coverage for housing units that are owned or operated or assisted with grant amounts provided under this chapter.
  (d) Eligibility for admission
     Each recipient shall develop written policies governing the eligibility, admission, and occupancy of families for housing assisted with grant amounts provided under this chapter.
  (e) Management and maintenance
     Each recipient shall develop policies governing the management and maintenance of housing assisted with grant amounts under this chapter.
  (f) Use of grant amounts over extended periods
    (1) In general
       To the extent that the Indian housing plan for an Indian tribe provides for the use of amounts of a grant under section 4111 of this title for a period of more than 1 fiscal year, or for affordable housing activities for which the amounts will be committed for use or expended during a subsequent fiscal year, the Secretary shall not require those amounts to be used or committed for use at any time earlier than otherwise provided for in the Indian housing plan.
    (2) Carryover
       Any amount of a grant provided to an Indian tribe under section 4111 of this title for a fiscal year that is not used by the Indian tribe during that fiscal year may be used by the Indian tribe during any subsequent fiscal year.
  (g) De minimis exemption for procurement of goods and services
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a recipient shall not be required to act in accordance with any otherwise applicable competitive procurement rule or procedure with respect to the procurement, using a grant provided under this chapter, of goods and services the value of which is less than $5,000.
