   The Secretary of the Interior be, and he is authorized and directed, from the capital reserve fund deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Klamath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians (hereinafter referred to as the ””Klamath Tribes““), said fund being established pursuant to the Act of August 28, 1937 (ch. 874, 50 Stat. 872) [25 U.S.C. 530 et seq.], as augmented by the proceeds of the judgment fund of the Klamath Indians as provided in the Act of August 7, 1939 (ch. 552, 53 Stat. 1252) [25 U.S.C. 541 et seq.], to credit the sum of $500 upon the books of the Office of Indian Affairs, to each person determined by the Secretary of the Interior to be entitled to enrollment upon the annuity roll of said tribes of the Klamath Reservation, Oregon, living upon March 29, 1948. The share of each adult member of the credit so established shall be available for expenditure, under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, for the following purposes:
   Purchase of land or interests in land; improvement of lands acquired or already held by the Indian; erection and improvement of suitable homes including household equipment and furnishings; repayment of any loans received from the United States or from the Klamath tribal funds; purchase of building material, feed, seed, and grain; purchase or rehabilitation and repair of farming equipment, tools, trucks, tractors, machinery, and implements; and purchase of any other equipment or supplies necessary to enable the Indians to fit themselves for or to engage in farming, livestock, industry, or such other pursuits or vocations, including education and adult education, as will enable them to become self-supporting; and health, including dental work: T3Provided, howeverK, That the funds of the aged, infirm, decrepit, and incapacitated members may be used for their proper maintenance and support: T3Provided furtherK, That during minority the share of each minor Indian shall be available for expenditure only for his education and for health purposes, including dental work, except that in an emergency expenditure of a minor Indian“s share may be made for any of the purposes specified in this section and section 545 of this title. As herein used, the term ””minor““ shall include all members of the tribe who have not attained the age of twenty-one years, except that minors eighteen years of age or over and who are married or have families of their own to support, shall be regarded as adults. On the death of any enrolled member, adult or minor, the sum on deposit to his credit shall be distributed as personal property, and shall be available for expenditure by the distributees only for the purposes herein authorized: T3And provided furtherK, That each member of the Klamath Tribes honorably discharged from service to the United States in its armed forces shall, upon application to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, be paid $200 in cash, free from the aforesaid restrictions and in addition to the $500 to be credited to such member as provided in this section.
