  (a) Extension; laws applicable; eligibility for Federal services and benefits
     Federal recognition is hereby extended to the tribe, and the provisions of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984) as amended [25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.], except as inconsistent with specific provisions of this subchapter, are made applicable to the tribe and the members of the tribe. The tribe and the members of the tribe shall be eligible for all Federal services and benefits furnished to federally recognized Indian tribes. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any law establishing such services or benefits, eligibility of the tribe and its members for such Federal services and benefits shall become effective upon November 18, 1977, without regard to the existence of a reservation for the tribe or the residence of members of the tribe on a reservation.
  (b) Restoration of rights and privileges
     Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, all rights and privileges of the tribe and of members of the tribe under any Federal treaty, Executive order, agreement, or statute, or under any other authority, which were diminished or lost under the Act of August 13, 1954 (68 Stat. 724) [25 U.S.C. 691 et seq.], are hereby restored, and such Act shall be inapplicable to the tribe and to members of the tribe after November 18, 1977.
  (c) Hunting, fishing or trapping rights and tribal reservations not restored
     This subchapter shall not grant or restore any hunting, fishing, or trapping right of any nature, including any indirect or procedural right or advantage, to the tribe or any member of the tribe, nor shall it be construed as granting, establishing, or restoring a reservation for the tribe.
  (d) Effect on property rights or obligations, contractual rights or obligations, or obligations for taxes
     Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, nothing in this subchapter shall alter any property right or obligation, any contractual right or obligation, or any obligation for taxes already levied.
