  (a) Adoption of proposed constitution and bylaws; election: time and procedure
    (1) The Interim Council shall be responsible for preparing the tribal constitution and bylaws which shall provide for, at a minimum, the establishment of a tribal governing body and tribal membership qualifications. Such proposed constitution and bylaws shall be adopted by the Interim Council no later than six months after November 22, 1983.
    (2) Upon the adoption of the proposed tribal constitution and bylaws by the Interim Council, the Council shall request the Secretary, in writing, to schedule an election to approve or disapprove the adoption of such constitution and bylaws. The Secretary shall conduct an election by secret ballot in accordance with section 476 of this title.
  (b) Notice and consultation
     Not less than thirty days before any election scheduled pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, a copy of the proposed tribal constitution and bylaws, as adopted by the Interim Council, along with a brief and impartial description of the proposed constitution and bylaws shall be sent to each member eligible to participate in such election under section 713e(d) of this title. The members of the Interim Council may freely consult with members of the tribe concerning the text and description of the constitution and bylaws, except that such consultation may not be carried on within fifty feet of the polling places on the date of such election.
  (c) Majority vote for adoption; procedure in event of failure to adopt proposed constitution
    (1) In any election held pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, a vote of a majority of those actually voting shall be necessary and sufficient for the approval of the adoption of the tribal constitution and bylaws.
    (2) If in any such election such majority does not approve the adoption of the proposed tribal constitution and bylaws, the Interim Council shall be responsible for preparing another tribal constitution and other bylaws in the same manner provided in this section for the first proposed constitution and bylaws. Such new proposed constitution and bylaws shall be adopted by the Interim Council no later than six months after the date of the election in which the first proposed constitution and bylaws failed of adoption. An election on the question of the adoption of the new proposal of the Interim Council shall be conducted in the same manner provided in subsection (a)(2) of this section for the election on the first proposed constitution and bylaws.
  (d) Election of tribal governing body
     Not later than one hundred and twenty days after the tribe approves the adoption of the tribal constitution and bylaws and subject to the approval of the Secretary, the Interim Council shall conduct an election, by secret ballot, to elect the tribal governing body established under such constitution and bylaws. Notwithstanding any provision of the tribal constitution and bylaws, absentee and write-in balloting shall be permitted in an election under this subsection.
