  (a) Opening; duty of Interim Council and tribal officials
     The membership roll is declared open. The Interim Council and tribal officials under the Tribe“s constitution and bylaws shall take such measures as will insure the continuing accuracy of the membership roll.
  (b) Criteria for enrollment
    (1) Until a tribal constitution and bylaws are adopted, a person shall be a member of the Tribe and his name shall be placed on the membership roll if the individual is living and if–
      (a) that individual“s name was listed on the Tribe“s Census Roll of 1940;
      (b) that individual was entitled to be listed on the Tribe“s Census Roll of January 1, 1940 but was not so listed. Any person placed on the membership roll must be listed on the January 1, 1940 Census Roll of the Grand Ronde-Siletz Indian Agency of nonreservation Indians as Coos, Lower Umpqua, or Siuslaw, be a descendant of such a person, or be a descendant of public domain allotee \1\N of Western Oregon who was a member of one of these three tribes.
      (c) that individual is a direct lineal descendant of an individual, living or dead, identified by subparagraph (a) or (b); and
      (d) that individual or the lineal ancestor through whom he qualifies for membership under subparagraph (c) has never been an enrolled member of, or qualified for the payment of any money for the taking of land or otherwise through, any other Indian tribe, either federally recognized or acknowledged or not federally recognized or acknowledged.
    (2) Until a tribal constitution and bylaws are adopted, a person shall be eligible for membership if the individual is living and meets the criteria established in subsections (b)(1)(a), (b) and (c) of this section. Such individual may submit an application for enrollment to the Interim Council for consideration and decision and the Interim Council shall place on the roll the name of all individuals who submitted an application and are meeting the criteria established under subsections (b)(1)(a), (b) and (c) of this section: T3ProvidedK, That the Interim Council may reject the application of any person who is found to be a member or who is claiming membership in another Indian tribe. Nothing in this subchapter shall bar unsuccessful applicants for enrollment before the Interim Council from submitting an application for enrollment to the Tribe after the adoption of a tribal constitution and bylaws.
    (3) After the adoption of a tribal constitution and bylaws, those documents shall govern membership in the Tribe.
  (c) Verification of eligibility for enrollment; appeal; finality of determination; possession of enrollment records and materials
    (1) Prior to any election pursuant to section 714d of this title, the Interim Council shall verify by tribal resolution the eligibility for enrollment and age of each member listed on the Tribe“s membership roll, which resolution shall be forwarded to the Secretary.
    (2) With regard to the exclusion of any name from the tribal membership roll, any member may appeal to the Secretary, who shall make a final determination of each such appeal within ninety days after an appeal has been filed with him. The determination of the Secretary with respect to such an appeal shall be final.
  (d) Franchisement
     A member who is eighteen years of age or older is entitled and eligible to be given notice of, attend, participate in, and vote at, general council meetings and to nominate candidates for, to run for any office in, and to vote in elections of members to the interim council \2\N and to other tribal councils.
