  (a) Nomination and election of members; notice; meetings; ballot requirements; approval by Secretary
     Within forty-five days after April 3, 1980, the Secretary shall announce the date of a general council meeting of the tribe to nominate candidates for election to the Interim Council. Such general council meeting shall be held within sixty days after April 3, 1980. Within forty-five days after such general council meeting the Secretary shall hold an election by secret ballot, absentee balloting to be permitted, to elect six members of the tribe to the Interim Council from among the nominees submitted to him from such general council meeting. The Secretary shall assure that notice of the time, place, and purpose of such meeting and election shall be provided to members described in section 763(d) of this title at least fifteen days before such general meeting and election. The ballot shall provide for write-in votes. The Secretary shall approve the Interim Council elected pursuant to this section if he is satisfied that the requirements of this section relating to the nominating and election process have been met. If he is not so satisfied, he shall hold another election under this section, with the general council meeting to nominate candidates for election to the Interim Council to be held within sixty days after such election.
  (b) Powers and authorities
     The Interim Council shall represent the tribe and its members in the implementation of this subchapter and shall be the acting tribal governing body until tribal officials are elected pursuant to section 765(c) of this title and shall have no powers other than those given to it in accordance with this subchapter. The Interim Council shall have full authority and capacity to receive grants from and to make contracts with the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services with respect to Federal services and benefits for the tribe and its members: T3ProvidedK, That no authority to enter into contracts or to make payments under this subchapter shall be effective except to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts. The Interim Council shall have the authority to bind the tribal governing body as the successor in interest to the Interim Council for a period extending not more than six months after the date on which the tribal governing body takes office. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, the Interim Council shall have no power or authority after the time when the duly-elected tribal governing body takes office.
  (c) Vacancies; notice; meeting; election
     Within thirty days after receiving notice of a vacancy on the Interim Council, the Interim Council shall hold a general council meeting for the purpose of electing a person to fill such vacancy. The Interim Council shall provide notice of the time, place, and purpose of such meeting and election to members described in section 763(d) of this title at least ten days before such general meeting and election. The person nominated to fill such vacancy at the general council meeting who received the highest number of votes in the election shall fill such vacancy.
