  (a) T4Authority To Pay Bonus.–
    (1) T4AuthorityK.–The Secretary of Defense may authorize the appropriate Secretary to pay a bonus under this section to an individual referred to in paragraph (2) who refers to a military recruiter a person who has not previously served in an armed force and, after such referral, takes an oath of enlistment that leads to appointment as a commissioned officer, or accepts an appointment as a commissioned officer, in an armed force in a health profession designated by the appropriate Secretary for purposes of this section.
    (2) T4Individuals eligible for bonusK.–Subject to subsection (c), the following individuals are eligible for a referral bonus under this section:
      (A) A member of the armed forces in a regular component of the armed forces.
      (B) A member of the armed forces in a reserve component of the armed forces.
      (C) A member of the armed forces in a retired status, including a member under 60 years of age who, but for age, would be eligible for retired or retainer pay.
      (D) A civilian employee of a military department or the Department of Defense.
  (b) T4ReferralK.–For purposes of this section, a referral for which a bonus may be paid under subsection (a) occurs–
    (1) when the individual concerned contacts a military recruiter on behalf of a person interested in taking an oath of enlistment that leads to appointment as a commissioned officer, or accepting an appointment as a commissioned officer, as applicable, in an armed force in a health profession; or
    (2) when a person interested in taking an oath of enlistment that leads to appointment as a commissioned officer, or accepting an appointment as a commissioned officer, as applicable, in an armed force in a health profession contacts a military recruiter and informs the recruiter of the role of the individual concerned in initially recruiting the person.
  (c) T4Certain Referrals Ineligible.–
    (1) T4Referral of immediate familyK.–A member of the armed forces or civilian employee of a military department or the Department of Defense may not be paid a bonus under subsection (a) for the referral of an immediate family member.
    (2) T4Members in recruiting rolesK.–A member of the armed forces or civilian employee of a military department or the Department of Defense serving in a recruiting or retention assignment, or assigned to other duties regarding which eligibility for a bonus under subsection (a) could (as determined by the appropriate Secretary) be perceived as creating a conflict of interest, may not be paid a bonus under subsection (a).
    (3) T4Junior reserve officers“ training corps instructorsK.–A member of the armed forces detailed under subsection (c)(1) of section 2031 of this title to serve as an administrator or instructor in the Junior Reserve Officers“ Training Corps program or a retired member of the armed forces employed as an administrator or instructor in the program under subsection (d) of such section may not be paid a bonus under subsection (a).
  (d) T4Amount of BonusK.–The amount of the bonus payable for a referral under subsection (a) may not exceed $2,000. The amount shall be payable as provided in subsection (e).
  (e) T4PaymentK.–A bonus payable for a referral of a person under subsection (a) shall be paid as follows:
    (1) Not more than $1,000 shall be paid upon the execution by the person of an agreement to serve as an officer in a health profession in an armed force for not less than 3 years,\1\N
    (2) Not more than $1,000 shall be paid upon the completion by the person of the initial period of military training as an officer.
  (f) T4Relation to Prohibition on BountiesK.–The referral bonus authorized by this section is not a bounty for purposes of section 514(a) of this title.
  (g) T4Coordination With Receipt of Retired PayK.–A bonus paid under this section to a member of the armed forces in a retired status is in addition to any compensation to which the member is entitled under this title, title 37 or 38, or any other provision of law.
  (h) T4Appropriate Secretary DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””appropriate Secretary““ means–
    (1) the Secretary of the Army, with respect to matters concerning the Army;
    (2) the Secretary of the Navy, with respect to matters concerning the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard when it is operating as a service in the Navy;
    (3) the Secretary of the Air Force, with respect to matters concerning the Air Force; and
    (4) the Secretary of Defense, with respect to personnel of the Department of Defense.
      (i) T4Duration of AuthorityK.–A bonus may not be paid under subsection (a) with respect to any referral that occurs after December 31, 2010.
