  (a) T4In GeneralK.–As provided in section 175 of this title, there is in the Office of the Secretary of Defense a board known as the ””Reserve Forces Policy Board““ (in this section referred to as the ””Board““).
  (b) T4FunctionsK.–The Board shall serve as an independent adviser to the Secretary of Defense to provide advice and recommendations to the Secretary on strategies, policies, and practices designed to improve and enhance the capabilities, efficiency, and effectiveness of the reserve components.
  (c) T4MembershipK.–The Board consists of 20 members, appointed or designated as follows:
    (1) A civilian appointed by the Secretary of Defense from among persons determined by the Secretary to have the knowledge of, and experience in, policy matters relevant to national security and reserve component matters necessary to carry out the duties of chair of the Board, who shall serve as chair of the Board.
    (2) Two active or retired reserve officers or enlisted members designated by the Secretary of Defense upon the recommendation of the Secretary of the Army–
      (A) one of whom shall be a member of the Army National Guard of the United States or a former member of the Army National Guard of the United States in the Retired Reserve; and
      (B) one of whom shall be a member or retired member of the Army Reserve.
    (3) Two active or retired reserve officers or enlisted members designated by the Secretary of Defense upon the recommendation of the Secretary of the Navy–
      (A) one of whom shall be an active or retired officer of the Navy Reserve; and
      (B) one of whom shall be an active or retired officer of the Marine Corps Reserve.
    (4) Two active or retired reserve officers or enlisted members designated by the Secretary of Defense upon the recommendation of the Secretary of the Air Force–
      (A) one of whom shall be a member of the Air National Guard of the United States or a former member of the Air National Guard of the United States in the Retired Reserve; and
      (B) one of whom shall be a member or retired member of the Air Force Reserve.
    (5) One active or retired reserve officer or enlisted member of the Coast Guard designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
    (6) Ten persons appointed or designated by the Secretary of Defense, each of whom shall be a United States citizen having significant knowledge of and experience in policy matters relevant to national security and reserve component matters and shall be one of the following:
      (A) An individual not employed in any Federal or State department or agency.
      (B) An individual employed by a Federal or State department or agency.
      (C) An officer of a regular component of the armed forces on active duty, or an officer of a reserve component of the armed forces in an active status, who–
        (i) is serving or has served in a senior position on the Joint Staff, the headquarters staff of a combatant command, or the headquarters staff of an armed force; and
        (ii) has experience in joint professional military education, joint qualification, and joint operations matters.
    (7) A reserve officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who is a general or flag officer recommended by the chair and designated by the Secretary of Defense, who shall serve without vote–
      (A) as military adviser to the chair;
      (B) as military executive officer of the Board; and
      (C) as supervisor of the operations and staff of the Board.
    (8) A senior enlisted member of a reserve component recommended by the chair and designated by the Secretary of Defense, who shall serve without vote as enlisted military adviser to the chair.
  (d) T4Matters To Be Acted onK.–The Board may act on those matters referred to it by the chair and on any matter raised by a member of the Board or the Secretary of Defense.
  (e) T4StaffK.–The Board shall be supported by a staff consisting of one full-time officer from each of the reserve components listed in paragraphs (1) through (6) of section 10101 of this title who holds the grade of colonel (or in the case of the Navy, the grade of captain) or who has been selected for promotion to that grade. These officers shall also serve as liaisons between their respective components and the Board. They shall perform their staff and liaison duties under the supervision of the military executive officer of the Board in an independent manner reflecting the independent nature of the Board.
  (f) T4Relationship to Service Reserve Policy Committees and BoardsK.–This section does not affect the committees and boards prescribed within the military departments by sections 10302 through 10305 of this title, and a member of such a committee or board may, if otherwise eligible, be a member of the Board.
