  (a) There is in the Office of the Secretary of the Army an Army Reserve Forces Policy Committee. The Committee shall review and comment upon major policy matters directly affecting the reserve components and the mobilization preparedness of the Army. The Committee“s comments on such policy matters shall accompany the final report regarding any such matters submitted to the Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff.
  (b) The Committee consists of officers in the grade of colonel or above, as follows:
    (1) five members of the Regular Army on duty with the Army General Staff;
    (2) five members of the Army National Guard of the United States not on active duty; and
    (3) five members of the Army Reserve not on active duty.
  (c) The members of the Committee shall select the Chairman from among the members on the Committee not on active duty.
  (d) A majority of the members of the Committee shall act whenever matter affecting both the Army National Guard of the United States and Army Reserve are being considered. However, when any matter solely affecting one of the reserve components of the Army is being considered, it shall be acted upon only by the Subcommittee on Army National Guard Policy or the Subcommittee on Army Reserve Policy, as appropriate.
  (e) The Subcommittee on Army National Guard Policy consists of the members of the Committee other than the Army Reserve members.
  (f) The Subcommittee on Army Reserve Policy consists of the members of the Committee other than the Army National Guard members.
  (g) Membership on the Committee is determined by the Secretary of the Army and is for a minimum period of three years. Except in the case of members of the Committee from the Regular Army, the Secretary of the Army, when appointing new members, shall insure that among the officers of each component on the Committee there will at all times be two or more members with more than one year of continuous service on the Committee.
  (h) There shall be not less than 10 officers of the Army National Guard of the United States and the Army Reserve on duty with the Army Staff, one-half of whom shall be from each of those components. These officers shall be considered as additional members of the Army Staff while on that duty.
