  (a) There is in the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force an Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee on Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Policy. The Committee shall review and comment upon major policy matters directly affecting the reserve components and the mobilization preparedness of the Air Force. The Committee“s comments on such policy matters shall accompany the final report regarding any such matters submitted to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff.
  (b) The committee consists of officers in the grade of colonel or above, as follows:
    (1) five members of the Regular Air Force on duty with the Air Staff;
    (2) five members of the Air National Guard of the United States not on active duty; and
    (3) five members of the Air Force Reserve not on active duty.
  (c) The members of the Committee shall select the Chairman from among the members on the Committee not on active duty.
  (d) A majority of the members of the Committee shall act whenever matters affecting both the Air National Guard of the United States and Air Force Reserve are being considered. However, when any matter solely affecting one of the Air Force Reserve components is being considered, it shall be acted upon only by the Subcommittee on Air National Guard Policy or the Subcommittee on Air Force Reserve Policy, as appropriate.
  (e) The Subcommittee on Air National Guard Policy consists of the members of the Committee other than the Air Force Reserve members.
  (f) The Subcommittee on Air Force Reserve Policy consists of the members of the Committee other than the Air National Guard members.
  (g) Membership on the Air Staff Committee is determined by the Secretary of the Air Force and is for a minimum period of three years. Except in the case of members of the Committee from the Regular Air Force, the Secretary of the Air Force, when appointing new members, shall insure that among the officers of each component on the Committee there will at all times be two or more members with more than one year of continuous service on the Committee.
  (h) There shall be not less than 10 officers of the Air National Guard of the United States and the Air Force Reserve on duty with the Air Staff, one-half of whom shall be from each of those components. These officers shall be considered as additional members of the Air Staff while on that duty.
