  (a)    (1) Except as provided in subsection (b), if a dependent accompanying a member of the uniformed services who is stationed outside the United States or in Alaska or Hawaii and who is on active duty for a period of more than 30 days requires medical attention which is not available in the locality, transportation of the dependents at the expense of the United States is authorized to the nearest appropriate medical facility in which adequate medical care is available. On his recovery or when it is administratively determined that the patient should be removed from the medical facility involved, the dependent may be transported at the expense of the United States to the duty station of the member or to such other place determined to be appropriate under the circumstances. If a dependent is unable to travel unattended, round-trip transportation and travel expenses may be furnished necessary attendants. In addition to transportation of a dependent at the expense of the United States authorized under this subsection, reasonable travel expenses incurred in connection with the transportation of the dependent may be paid at the expense of the United States. Travel expenses authorized by this section may include reimbursement for necessary local travel in the vicinity of the medical facility involved. The transportation and travel expenses authorized by this section may be paid in advance.
    (2)      (A) Except as provided by subparagraph (E), for purposes of paragraph (1), required medical attention of a dependent includes, in the case of a dependent authorized to accompany a member at a location described in that paragraph, obstetrical anesthesia services for childbirth equivalent to the obstetrical anesthesia services for childbirth available in a military treatment facility in the United States.
      (B) In the case of a dependent at a remote location outside the continental United States who elects services described in subparagraph (A) and for whom air transportation would be needed to travel under paragraph (1) to the nearest appropriate medical facility in which adequate medical care is available, the Secretary may authorize the dependent to receive transportation under that paragraph to the continental United States and be treated at the military treatment facility that can provide appropriate obstetrical services that is nearest to the closest port of entry into the continental United States from such remote location.
      (C) The second through sixth sentences of paragraph (1) shall apply to a dependent provided transportation by reason of this paragraph.
      (D) The total cost incurred by the United States for the provision of transportation and expenses (including per diem) with respect to a dependent by reason of this paragraph may not exceed the cost the United States would otherwise incur for the provision of transportation and expenses with respect to that dependent under paragraph (1) if the transportation and expenses were provided to that dependent without regard to this paragraph.
      (E) The Secretary may not provide transportation to a dependent under this paragraph if the Secretary determines that–
        (i) the dependent would otherwise receive obstetrical anesthesia services at a military treatment facility; and
        (ii) such facility, in carrying out the required number of necessary obstetric cases, would not maintain competency of its obstetrical staff unless the facility provides such services to such dependent.
      (F) The authority under this paragraph shall expire on September 30, 2016.
  (b) This section does not authorize transportation and travel expenses for a dependent for elective surgery which is determined to be not medically indicated by a medical authority designated under joint regulations to be prescribed under this section.
  (c) In this section, the term ””dependent““ has the meaning given that term in section 1072 of this title.
  (d) Transportation and travel expenses authorized by this section shall be furnished in accordance with joint regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, which shall require the use of transportation facilities of the United States insofar as practicable.
