  (a) T4Authority To Establish PlanK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a dental insurance plan for members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve. The plan shall provide for voluntary enrollment and for premium sharing between the Department of Defense and the members enrolled in the plan.
  (2) The Secretary shall provide benefits under the plan through one or more contracts awarded after full and open competition.
  (3) The plan shall be administered under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
  (b) T4Premium SharingK.–(1) A member enrolling in the dental insurance plan shall pay a share of the premium charged for the insurance coverage. The member“s share may not exceed $25 per month.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense may reduce the monthly premium required to be paid by enlisted members under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the reduction is appropriate in order to assist enlisted members to participate in the dental insurance plan.
  (3) The Secretary of Defense shall establish procedures for the collection of the member“s share of the premium for coverage by the dental insurance plan. To the maximum extent practicable, a member“s share shall be deducted and withheld from the basic pay payable to the member for inactive duty training or basic pay payable to the member for active duty (if pay is available to the member). Such share shall be used to pay the premium for coverage by the dental insurance plan.
  (4) The Secretary of Defense shall pay the portion of the premium charged for coverage of a member under the dental insurance plan that exceeds the amount paid by the member.
  (c) T4Benefits Available Under the PlanK.–The dental insurance plan shall provide benefits for basic dental care and treatment, including diagnostic services, preventative services, basic restorative services, and emergency oral examinations.
  (d) T4Termination of CoverageK.–The coverage of a member by the dental insurance plan shall terminate on the last day of the month in which the member is discharged, transfers to the Individual Ready Reserve, Standby Reserve, or Retired Reserve, or is ordered to active duty for a period of more than 30 days.
