  (a)    (1) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the other administering Secretaries, shall conduct studies and demonstration projects on the health care delivery system of the uniformed services with a view to improving the quality, efficiency, convenience, and cost effectiveness of providing health care services (including dental care services) under this title to members and former members and their dependents. Such studies and demonstration projects may include the following:
      (A) Alternative methods of payment for health and medical care services.
      (B) Cost-sharing by eligible beneficiaries.
      (C) Methods of encouraging efficient and economical delivery of health and medical care services.
      (D) Innovative approaches to delivery and financing of health and medical care services.
      (E) Alternative approaches to reimbursement for the administrative charges of health care plans.
      (F) Prepayment for medical care services provided to maintain the health of a defined population.
    (2) The Secretary of Defense shall include in the studies conducted under paragraph (1) alternative programs for the provision of dental care to the spouses and dependents of members of the uniformed services who are on active duty, including a program under which dental care would be provided the spouses and dependents of such members under insurance or dental plan contracts. A demonstration project may not be conducted under this section that provides for the furnishing of dental care under an insurance or dental plan contract.
    (3) The Secretary of Defense may include in the studies and demonstration projects conducted under paragraph (1) studies and demonstration projects to provide awards and incentives to members of the armed forces and covered beneficiaries who obtain health promotion and disease prevention health care services under the TRICARE program in accordance with terms and schedules prescribed by the Secretary. Such awards and incentives may include cash awards and, in the case of members of the armed forces, personnel incentives.
    (4)      (A) The Secretary of Defense may, in consultation with the other administering Secretaries, include in the studies and demonstration projects conducted under paragraph (1) studies and demonstration projects to provide awards or incentives to individual health care professionals under the authority of such Secretaries, including members of the uniformed services, Federal civilian employees, and contractor personnel, to encourage and reward effective implementation of innovative health care programs designed to improve quality, cost-effectiveness, health promotion, medical readiness, and other priority objectives. Such awards and incentives may include cash awards and, in the case of members of the armed forces and Federal civilian employees, personnel incentives.
      (B) Amounts available for the pay of members of the uniformed services shall be available for awards and incentives under this paragraph with respect to members of the uniformed services.
    (5) The Secretary of Defense may include in the studies and demonstration projects conducted under paragraph (1) studies and demonstration projects to improve the medical and dental readiness of members of reserve components of the armed forces, including the provision of health care services to such members for which they are not otherwise entitled or eligible under this chapter.
    (6) The Secretary of Defense may include in the studies and demonstration projects conducted under paragraph (1) studies and demonstration projects to improve the continuity of health care services for family members of mobilized members of the reserve components of the armed forces who are eligible for such services under this chapter, including payment of a stipend for continuation of employer-provided health coverage during extended periods of active duty.
  (b) Subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose, the Secretary of Defense may enter into contracts with public or private agencies, institutions, and organizations to conduct studies and demonstration projects under subsection (a).
  (c) The Secretary of Defense may obtain the advice and recommendations of such advisory committees as the Secretary considers appropriate. Each such committee consulted by the Secretary under this subsection shall evaluate the proposed study or demonstration project as to the soundness of the objectives of such study or demonstration project, the likelihood of obtaining productive results based on such study or demonstration project, the resources which were required to conduct such study or demonstration project, and the relationship of such study or demonstration project to other ongoing or completed studies and demonstration projects.
