  (a) T4Establishment of AccountK.–(1) There is hereby established in the Department of Defense an account to be known as the ””Military Health Care Account““. All sums appropriated to carry out the functions of the Secretary of Defense with respect to the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services shall be appropriated to the account.
  (2) Amounts appropriated to the account shall remain available until obligated or expended under subsection (b) or (c).
  (b) T4Obligation of Amounts From Account by Secretary of DefenseK.–The Secretary of Defense may obligate or expend funds from the account for purposes of entering into a contract under section 1079, 1086, 1092, or 1097 of this title to the extent amounts are available in the account.
  (c) T4Allocation of Amounts in Account for Provision of Medical Care by Service SecretariesK.–(1) The Secretary of a military department shall, before the beginning of a fiscal year quarter, provide to the Secretary of Defense an estimate of the amounts necessary to pay for charges for benefits under the program for covered beneficiaries under the jurisdiction of the Secretary for that quarter.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense shall, subject to amounts provided in advance in appropriation Acts, make available to each Secretary of a military department the amount from the account that the Secretary of Defense determines is necessary to pay for charges for benefits under the program for covered beneficiaries under the jurisdiction of such Secretary for that quarter.
  (d) T4Expenditure of Amounts From Account by Service SecretariesK.–The Secretary of a military department shall provide medical and dental care to covered beneficiaries under the jurisdiction of the Secretary for a fiscal year quarter from amounts appropriated to the Secretary and from amounts from the account made available for that quarter to the Secretary by the Secretary of Defense. If the Secretary of a military department exhausts the amounts from the account made available to the Secretary for a fiscal year quarter, the Secretary shall transfer to the account from amounts appropriated to the Secretary an amount sufficient to provide medical and dental care to covered beneficiaries under the jurisdiction of the Secretary for the remainder of the fiscal year quarter.
  (e) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
  (f) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””account““ means the Military Health Care Account established in subsection (a).
    (2) The term ””program““ means the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services.
