  (a) T4Notice RequiredK.–(1) Whenever the Secretary of Defense requests or requires a member of the armed forces to receive an investigational new drug or a drug unapproved for its applied use, the Secretary shall provide the member with notice containing the information specified in subsection (d).
  (2) The Secretary shall also ensure that health care providers who administer an investigational new drug or a drug unapproved for its applied use, or who are likely to treat members who receive such a drug, receive the information required to be provided under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (d).
  (b) T4Time of NoticeK.–The notice required to be provided to a member under subsection (a)(1) shall be provided before the investigational new drug or drug unapproved for its applied use is first administered to the member, if practicable, but in no case later than 30 days after the drug is first administered to the member.
  (c) T4Form of NoticeK.–The notice required under subsection (a)(1) shall be provided in writing unless the Secretary of Defense determines that the use of written notice is impractical because of the number of members receiving the investigational new drug or drug unapproved for its applied use, time constraints, or similar reasons. If the Secretary provides notice under subsection (a)(1) in a form other than in writing, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the notification method used and the reasons for the use of the alternative method.
  (d) T4Content of NoticeK.–The notice required under subsection (a)(1) shall include the following:
    (1) Clear notice that the drug being administered is an investigational new drug or a drug unapproved for its applied use.
    (2) The reasons why the investigational new drug or drug unapproved for its applied use is being administered.
    (3) Information regarding the possible side effects of the investigational new drug or drug unapproved for its applied use, including any known side effects possible as a result of the interaction of such drug with other drugs or treatments being administered to the members receiving such drug.
    (4) Such other information that, as a condition of authorizing the use of the investigational new drug or drug unapproved for its applied use, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may require to be disclosed.
  (e) T4Records of UseK.–The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the medical records of members accurately document–
    (1) the receipt by members of any investigational new drug or drug unapproved for its applied use; and
    (2) the notice required by subsection (a)(1).
  (f) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””investigational new drug““ means a drug covered by section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)).
    (2) The term ””drug unapproved for its applied use““ means a drug administered for a use not described in the approved labeling of the drug under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355).
