  (a) The Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, may authorize the payment of a cash award to, and incur necessary expense for the honorary recognition of, a member of the armed forces under his jurisdiction who by his disclosure, suggestion, invention, or scientific achievement contributes to the efficiency, economy, or other improvement of operations or programs relating to the armed forces.
  (b) Whenever the President considers it desirable, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, are authorized to pay a cash award to, and incur necessary expense for the honorary recognition of, a member of the armed forces who by his disclosure, suggestion, invention, or scientific achievement contributes to the efficiency, economy, or other improvement of operations of the Government of the United States. Such award is in addition to any other award made to that member under subsection (a).
  (c) An award under this section may be paid notwithstanding the member“s death, separation, or retirement from the armed force concerned. However, the disclosure, suggestion, invention, or scientific achievement forming the basis for the award must have been made while the member was on active duty or in an active reserve status and not otherwise eligible for an award under chapter 45 of title 5.
  (d) A cash award under this section is in addition to the pay and allowances of the recipient. The acceptance of such an award shall constitute–
    (1) an agreement by the member that the use by the United States of any idea, method, or device for which the award is made may not be the basis of a claim against the United States by the member, his heirs, or assigns, or by any person whose claim is alleged to be derived through the member; and
    (2) a warranty by the member that he has not at the time of acceptance transferred, assigned, or otherwise divested himself of legal or equitable title in any property right residing in the idea, method, or device for which the award is made.
  (e) Awards to, and expenses for the honorary recognition of, members of the armed forces under this section may be paid from (1) the funds or appropriations available to the activity primarily benefiting; or (2) the several funds or appropriations of the various activities benefiting, as may be determined by the President for awards under subsection (b), and by the Secretary concerned for awards under subsection (a).
  (f) The total amount of the award, or awards, made under this section for a disclosure, suggestion, invention, or scientific achievement may not exceed $25,000, regardless of the number of persons who may be entitled to share therein.
  (g) Awards under this section shall be made under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, or by the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy.
  (h) For the purposes of this section, a member of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or of the Public Health Service who is serving with an armed force shall be treated as if he were a member of that armed force.
