  (a) T4RequirementK.–(1) Within the time periods specified in paragraph (3), the Secretary concerned shall (except as provided in paragraph (4)) provide for individual preseparation counseling of each member of the armed forces whose discharge or release from active duty is anticipated as of a specific date. A notation of the provision of such counseling with respect to each matter specified in subsection (b), signed by the member, shall be placed in the service record of each member receiving such counseling.
  (2) In carrying out this section, the Secretary concerned may use the services available under section 1144 of this title.
  (3)    (A) In the case of an anticipated retirement, preseparation counseling shall commence as soon as possible during the 24-month period preceding the anticipated retirement date. In the case of a separation other than a retirement, preseparation counseling shall commence as soon as possible during the 12-month period preceding the anticipated date. Except as provided in subparagraph (B), in no event shall preseparation counseling commence later than 90 days before the date of discharge or release.
    (B) In the event that a retirement or other separation is unanticipated until there are 90 or fewer days before the anticipated retirement or separation date, preseparation counseling shall begin as soon as possible within the remaining period of service.
  (4)    (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary concerned shall not provide preseparation counseling to a member who is being discharged or released before the completion of that member“s first 180 days of active duty.
    (B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply in the case of a member who is being retired or separated for disability.
  (b) T4Matters To Be Covered By CounselingK.–Counseling under this section shall include the following:
    (1) A discussion of the educational assistance benefits to which the member is entitled under the Montgomery GI Bill and other educational assistance programs because of the member“s service in the armed forces.
    (2) A description (to be developed with the assistance of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs) of the compensation and vocational rehabilitation benefits to which the member may be entitled under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, if the member is being medically separated or is being retired under chapter 61 of this title.
    (3) An explanation of the procedures for and advantages of affiliating with the Selected Reserve.
    (4) Provision of information on civilian occupations and related assistance programs, including information concerning–
      (A) certification and licensure requirements that are applicable to civilian occupations;
      (B) civilian occupations that correspond to military occupational specialties; and
      (C) Government and private-sector programs for job search and job placement assistance, including the public and community service jobs program carried out under section 1143a of this title, and information regarding the placement programs established under sections 1152 and 1153 of this title and the Troops-to-Teachers Program Act of 1999 (20 U.S.C. 9301 et seq.).\1\N
    (5) If the member has a spouse, job placement counseling for the spouse.
    (6) Information concerning the availability of relocation assistance services and other benefits and services available to persons leaving military service, as provided under section 1144 of this title.
    (7) Information concerning the availability of medical and dental coverage following separation from active duty, including the opportunity to elect into the conversion health policy provided under section 1145 of this title.
    (8) Counseling (for the member and dependents) on the effect of career change on individuals and their families.
    (9) Financial planning assistance.
    (10) The creation of a transition plan for the member to attempt to achieve the educational, training, and employment objectives of the member and, if the member has a spouse, the spouse of the member.
    (11) Information concerning the availability of mental health services and the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety disorders, depression, suicidal ideations, or other mental health conditions associated with service in the armed forces.
    (12) Information concerning the priority of service for veterans in the receipt of employment, training, and placement services provided under qualified job training programs of the Department of Labor.
    (13) Information concerning veterans small business ownership and entrepreneurship programs of the Small Business Administration and the National Veterans Business Development Corporation.
    (14) Information concerning employment and reemployment rights and obligations under chapter 43 of title 38.
    (15) Information concerning veterans preference in federal \2\N employment and federal \2\ procurement opportunities.
    (16) Contact information for housing counseling assistance.
    (17) A description, developed in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, of health care and other benefits to which the member may be entitled under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
  (c) T4Transmittal of Medical Information to Department of Veterans AffairsK.–In the case of a member being medically separated or being retired under chapter 61 of this title, the Secretary concerned shall ensure (subject to the consent of the member) that a copy of the member“s service medical record (including any results of a Physical Evaluation Board) is transmitted to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs within 60 days of the separation or retirement.
