  (a) T4In GeneralK.–The Secretary of Defense shall implement a program to encourage members and former members of the armed forces to enter into public and community service jobs after discharge or release from active duty.
  (b) T4Personnel RegistryK.–The Secretary shall maintain a registry of members and former members of the armed forces discharged or released from active duty who request registration for assistance in pursuing public and community service job opportunities. The registry shall include information on the particular job skills, qualifications, and experience of the registered personnel.
  (c) T4Registry of Public Service and Community Service OrganizationsK.–The Secretary shall also maintain a registry of public service and community service organizations. The registry shall contain information regarding each organization, including its location, its size, the types of public and community service positions in the organization, points of contact, procedures for applying for such positions, and a description of each such position that is likely to be available. Any such organization may request registration under this subsection and, subject to guidelines prescribed by the Secretary, be registered.
  (d) T4Assistance To Be ProvidedK.–(1) The Secretary shall actively attempt to match personnel registered under subsection (b) with public and community service job opportunities and to facilitate job-seeking contacts between such personnel and the employers offering the jobs.
  (2) The Secretary shall offer personnel registered under subsection (b) counselling services regarding–
    (A) public service and community service organizations; and
    (B) procedures and techniques for qualifying for and applying for jobs in such organizations.
  (3) The Secretary may provide personnel registered under subsection (b) with access to the interstate job bank program of the United States Employment Service if the Secretary determines that such program meets the needs of separating members of the armed forces for job placement.
  (e) T4Consultation RequirementK.–In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult closely with the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Education, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, appropriate representatives of State and local governments, and appropriate representatives of businesses and nonprofit organizations in the private sector.
  (f) T4DelegationK.–The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Labor, may designate the Secretary of Labor as the executive agent of the Secretary of Defense for carrying out all or part of the responsibilities provided in this section. Such a designation does not relieve the Secretary of Defense from the responsibility for the implementation of the provisions of this section.
  (g) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section, the term ””public service and community service organization““ includes the following organizations:
    (1) Any organization that provides the following services:
      (A) Elementary, secondary, or postsecondary school teaching or administration.
      (B) Support of such teaching or school administration.
      (C) Law enforcement.
      (D) Public health care.
      (E) Social services.
      (F) Any other public or community service.
    (2) Any nonprofit organization that coordinates the provision of services described in paragraph (1).
  (h) T4Coast GuardK.–This section shall apply to the Coast Guard in the same manner and to the same extent as it applies to the Department of Defense. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement the requirements of this section for the Coast Guard.
