  (a) T4In GeneralK.–(1) The Secretary of Labor, in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall establish and maintain a program to furnish counseling, assistance in identifying employment and training opportunities, help in obtaining such employment and training, and other related information and services to members of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned who are being separated from active duty and the spouses of such members. Such services shall be provided to a member during the 180-day period before the member is separated from active duty.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall cooperate with the Secretary of Labor in establishing and maintaining the program under this section.
  (3) The Secretaries referred to in paragraph (1) shall enter into a detailed agreement to carry out this section. The agreement shall be entered into no later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this section.
  (b) T4Elements of ProgramK.–In establishing and carrying out a program under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall do the following:
    (1) Provide information concerning employment and training assistance, including (A) labor market information, (B) civilian work place requirements and employment opportunities, (C) instruction in resume΄ preparation, and (D) job analysis techniques, job search techniques, and job interview techniques.
    (2) In providing information under paragraph (1), use experience obtained from implementation of the pilot program established under section 408 of Public Law 101–237.
    (3) Provide information concerning Federal, State, and local programs, and programs of military and veterans“ service organizations, that may be of assistance to such members after separation from the armed forces, including, as appropriate, the information and services to be provided under section 1142 of this title.
    (4) Inform such members that the Department of Defense and the Department of Transportation are required under section 1143(a) of this title to provide proper certification or verification of job skills and experience acquired while on active duty that may have application to employment in the civilian sector for use in seeking civilian employment and in obtaining job search skills.
    (5) Provide information and other assistance to such members in their efforts to obtain loans and grants from the Small Business Administration and other Federal, State, and local agencies.
    (6) Provide information about the geographic areas in which such members will relocate after separation from the armed forces, including, to the degree possible, information about employment opportunities, the labor market, and the cost of living in those areas (including, to the extent practicable, the cost and availability of housing, child care, education, and medical and dental care).
    (7) Work with military and veterans“ service organizations and other appropriate organizations in promoting and publicizing job fairs for such members.
    (8) Provide information regarding the public and community service jobs program carried out under section 1143a of this title.
  (c) T4ParticipationK.–The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Transportation shall encourage and otherwise promote maximum participation by members of the armed forces eligible for assistance under the program carried out under this section.
  (d) T4Use of Personnel and OrganizationsK.–In carrying out the program established under this section, the Secretaries may–
    (1) provide, as the case may be, for the use of disabled veterans outreach program specialists, local veterans“ employment representatives, and other employment service personnel funded by the Department of Labor to the extent that the Secretary of Labor determines that such use will not significantly interfere with the provision of services or other benefits to eligible veterans and other eligible recipients of such services or benefits;
    (2) use military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense and the Department of Transportation;
    (3) use personnel of the Veterans Benefits Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs and other appropriate personnel of that Department;
    (4) use representatives of military and veterans“ service organizations;
    (5) enter into contracts with public or private entities; and
    (6) take other necessary action to develop and furnish the information and services to be provided under this section.
  (e) T4FundingK.–(1) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Labor to carry out this section $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1994 and 1995.
  (2) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out this section $6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995.
