  (a) T4Transitional Health CareK.–(1) For the time period described in paragraph (3), a member of the armed forces who is separated from active duty as described in paragraph (2) (and the dependents of the member) shall be entitled to receive–
    (A) medical and dental care under section 1076 of this title in the same manner as a dependent described in subsection (a)(2) of such section; and
    (B) health benefits contracted under the authority of section 1079(a) of this title and subject to the same rates and conditions as apply to persons covered under that section.
  (2) This subsection applies to the following members of the armed forces:
    (A) A member who is involuntarily separated from active duty.
    (B) A member of a reserve component who is separated from active duty to which called or ordered in support of a contingency operation if the active duty is active duty for a period of more than 30 days.
    (C) A member who is separated from active duty for which the member is involuntarily retained under section 12305 of this title in support of a contingency operation.
    (D) A member who is separated from active duty served pursuant to a voluntary agreement of the member to remain on active duty for a period of less than one year in support of a contingency operation.
  (3) Transitional health care for a member under subsection (a) shall be available for 180 days beginning on the date on which the member is separated from active duty.
  (4)    (A) The Secretary concerned shall require a member of the armed forces scheduled to be separated from active duty as described in paragraph (2) to undergo a physical examination immediately before that separation. The physical examination shall be conducted in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
    (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if a member of the armed forces scheduled to be separated from active duty as described in paragraph (2) has otherwise undergone a physical examination within 12 months before the scheduled date of separation from active duty, the requirement for a physical examination under subparagraph (A) may be waived in accordance with regulations prescribed under this paragraph. Such regulations shall require that such a waiver may be granted only with the consent of the member and with the concurrence of the member“s unit commander.
  (5)    (A) The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, ensure that appropriate actions are taken to assist a member of the armed forces who, as a result of a medical examination under paragraph (4), receives an indication for a referral for follow up treatment from the health care provider who performs the examination.
    (B) Assistance provided to a member under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
      (i) Information regarding, and any appropriate referral for, the care, treatment, and other services that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may provide to such member under any other provision of law, including–
        (I) clinical services, including counseling and treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions; and
        (II) any other care, treatment, and services.
      (ii) Information on the private sector sources of treatment that are available to the member in the member“s community.
      (iii) Assistance to enroll in the health care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs for health care benefits for which the member is eligible under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
  (b) T4Conversion Health PoliciesK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall inform each member referred to in subsection (a) before the date of the member“s discharge or release from active duty of the availability for purchase by the member of a conversion health policy for the member and the dependents of that member. A conversion health policy offered under this paragraph shall provide coverage for not less than an 18-month period.
  (2) If a member referred to in subsection (a) purchases a conversion health policy during the period applicable to the member (or within a reasonable time after that period as prescribed by the Secretary of Defense), the Secretary shall provide health care, or pay the costs of health care provided, to the member and the dependents of the member–
    (A) during the 18-month period beginning on the date on which coverage under the conversion health policy begins; and
    (B) for a condition (including pregnancy) that exists on such date and for which care is not provided under the policy solely on the grounds that the condition is a preexisting condition.
  (3) The Secretary of Defense may arrange for the provision of health care described in paragraph (2) through a contract with the insurer offering the conversion health policy.
  (4) If the Secretary of Defense is unable, within a reasonable time, to enter into a contract with a private insurer to provide the conversion health policy required under paragraph (1) at a rate not to exceed the payment required under section 8905a(d)(1)(A) of title 5 for comparable coverage, the Secretary shall offer such a policy under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services. Subject to paragraph (5), a member purchasing a policy from the Secretary shall be required to pay into the Military Health Care Account or other appropriate account an amount equal to the sum of–
    (A) the individual and Government contributions which would be required in the case of a person enrolled in a health benefits plan contracted for under section 1079 of this title; and
    (B) an amount necessary for administrative expenses, but not to exceed two percent of the amount under subparagraph (A).
  (5) The amount paid by a member who purchases a conversion health policy from the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (4) may not exceed the payment required under section 8905a(d)(1)(A) of title 5 for comparable coverage.
  (6) In order to reduce premiums required under paragraph (4), the Secretary of Defense may offer a conversion health policy that, with respect to mental health services, offers reduced coverage and increased cost-sharing by the purchaser.
  (c) T4Health Care For Certain Separated Members Not Otherwise EligibleK.–(1) Consistent with the authority of the Secretary concerned to designate certain classes of persons as eligible to receive health care at a military medical facility, the Secretary concerned should consider authorizing, on an individual basis in cases of hardship, the provision of that care for a member who is separated from the armed forces, and is ineligible for transitional health care under subsection (a) or does not obtain a conversion health policy (or a dependent of the member).
  (2) The Secretary concerned shall give special consideration to requests for such care in cases in which the condition for which treatment is required was incurred or aggravated by the member or the dependent before the date of the separation of the member, particularly if the condition is a result of the particular circumstances of the service of the member.
  (d) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, the term ””conversion health policy““ means a health insurance policy with a private insurer, developed through negotiations between the Secretary of Defense and a private insurer, that is available for purchase by or for the use of a person who is no longer a member of the armed forces or a covered beneficiary.
  (e) T4Coast GuardK.–The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this section for the members of the Coast Guard and their dependents.
