  (a) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress an annual defense manpower requirements report. The report, which shall be in writing, shall be submitted each year not later than 45 days after the date on which the President submits to Congress the budget for the next fiscal year under section 1105 of title 31. The report shall contain the Secretary“s recommendations for–
    (1) the annual active-duty end-strength level for each component of the armed forces for the next fiscal year; and
    (2) the annual civilian personnel end-strength level for each component of the Department of Defense for the next fiscal year.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall include in each report under subsection (a) justification for the strength levels recommended and an explanation of the relationship between the personnel strength levels recommended for that fiscal year and the national security policies of the United States in effect at the time.
    (2) The justification and explanation shall specify in detail for all major military force units (including each land force division, carrier and other major combatant vessel, air wing, and other comparable unit) the following:
      (A) Unit mission and capability.
      (B) Strategy which the unit supports.
    (3) The justification and explanation shall also specify in detail the manpower required to perform the medical missions of each of the armed forces and of the Department of Defense.
  (c) The Secretary shall include in each report under subsection (a) a detailed discussion of the following:
    (1) The manpower required for support and overhead functions within the armed forces and the Department of Defense.
    (2) The relationship of the manpower required for support and overhead functions to the primary combat missions and support policies.
    (3) The manpower required to be stationed or assigned to duty in foreign countries and aboard vessels located outside the territorial limits of the United States, its territories, and possessions.
  (d) The Secretary shall also include in each such report, with respect to each armed force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a military department, the following:
    (1) The number of positions that require warrant officers or commissioned officers serving on active duty in each of the officer grades during the current fiscal year and the estimated number of such positions for each of the next five fiscal years.
    (2) The estimated number of officers that will be serving on active duty in each grade on the last day of the current fiscal year and the estimated numbers of officers that will be needed on active duty on the last day of each of the next five fiscal years.
    (3) An estimate and analysis for the current fiscal year and for each of the next five fiscal years of gains to and losses from the number of members on active duty in each officer grade, including a tabulation of–
      (A) retirements displayed by year of active commissioned service;
      (B) discharges;
      (C) other separations;
      (D) deaths;
      (E) promotions; and
      (F) reserve and regular officers ordered to active duty.
  (e)    (1) In each such report, the Secretary shall also include recommendations for the end-strength levels for medical personnel for each component of the armed forces as of the end of the next fiscal year.
    (2) For purposes of this subsection, the term ””medical personnel““ includes–
      (A) in the case of the Army, members of the Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Nurse Corps, Medical Service Corps, Veterinary Corps, and Army Medical Specialist Corps;
      (B) in the case of the Navy, members of the Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Nurse Corps, and Medical Service Corps;
      (C) in the case of the Air Force, members designated as medical officers, dental officers, Air Force nurses, medical service officers, and biomedical science officers;
      (D) enlisted members engaged in or supporting medically related activities; and
      (E) such other personnel as the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (f) The Secretary shall also include in each such report the following information with respect to personnel assigned to or supporting major Department of Defense headquarters activities:
    (1) The military end strength and civilian full-time equivalents assigned to major Department of Defense headquarters activities for the preceding fiscal year and estimates of such numbers for the current fiscal year and subsequent fiscal years.
    (2) A summary of the replacement during the preceding fiscal year of contract workyears providing support to major Department of Defense headquarters activities with military end strength or civilian full-time equivalents, including an estimate of the number of contract workyears associated with the replacement of contracts performing inherently governmental or exempt functions.
    (3) The plan for the continued review of contract personnel supporting major Department of Defense headquarters activities for possible conversion to military or civilian performance in accordance with section 2463 of this title.
    (4) The amount of any adjustment in the limitation on personnel made by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department, and, for each adjustment made pursuant to section 1111(b)(2) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 143 note), the purpose of the adjustment.
       [(g) Redesignated (e)]
  (h) In each such report, the Secretary shall include a separate report on the Army and Air Force military technician programs. The report shall include a presentation, shown by reserve component and shown both as of the end of the preceding fiscal year and for the next fiscal year, of the following (displayed in the aggregate and separately for military technicians (dual status) and non-dual status military technicians):
    (1) The number of military technicians required to be employed (as specified in accordance with Department of Defense procedures), the number authorized to be employed under Department of Defense personnel procedures, and the number actually employed.
    (2) Within each of the numbers under paragraph (1)–
      (A) the number applicable to a reserve component management headquarter organization; and
      (B) the number applicable to high-priority units and organizations (as specified in section 10216(a) of this title).
