  (a) T4Required SeparationK.–(1) Subject to paragraph (2), a member of the armed forces who is classified as permanently nonworldwide assignable due to a medical condition shall (except as provided in subsection (c)) be separated.
  (2) Paragraph (1) shall not be in effect in the case of any of the armed forces if the Secretary concerned determines that the retention of permanently nonworldwide assignable members would not adversely affect the ability of that service to carry out its mission.
  (3) A separation under paragraph (1) shall be made on a date determined by the Secretary concerned, which (except as provided in subsection (b)(2)) shall be as soon as practicable after the date on which the determination is made that the member should be so classified and not later than the last day of the twelfth month beginning after that date.
  (b) T4Form of SeparationK.–(1) If a member to be separated under this section is eligible to retire under any provision of law or to be transferred to the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve, the member shall be so retired or so transferred. Otherwise, the member shall be discharged.
  (2) In the case of a member to be discharged under this section who on the date on which the member is to be discharged is within two years of qualifying for retirement under any provison \1\N of law, or of qualifying for transfer to the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve under section 6330 of this title, the member may, as determined by the Secretary concerned, be retained on active duty until the member is qualified for retirement or transfer to the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve, as the case may be, and then be so retired or transferred, unless the member is sooner retired or discharged under any other provision of law.
  (c) T4ExceptionsK.–The Secretary concerned may waive subsection (a) with respect to an individual member of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of that Secretary if the Secretary determines that there are circumstances that warrant the retention of that member. Such circumstances may include–
    (1) consideration that the medical condition making the member permanently nonworldwide assignable was incurred in combat or otherwise as the result of an action of the member for which the member received a decoration or other recognition for personal bravery;
    (2) consideration that the member has a specific proficiency or skill that is vital to the national security; and
    (3) any other circumstance that the Secretary considers to be for the good of the service.
  (d) T4Counseling About Available Medical CareK.–A member to be separated under this section shall be provided information, in writing, before such separation of the available medical care (through the Department of Veterans Affairs and otherwise) to treat the member“s condition. Such information shall include identification of specific medical locations near the member“s home of record or point of discharge at which the member may seek necessary medical care.
  (e) T4Separation To Be Considered InvoluntaryK.–A separation under this section shall be considered to be an involuntary separation for purposes of any other provision of law.
