  (a) T4Review RequiredK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall every four years conduct a comprehensive examination of the quality of life of the members of the armed forces (to be known as the ””quadrennial quality of life review““). The review shall include examination of the programs, projects, and activities of the Department of Defense, including the morale, welfare, and recreation activities.
  (2) The quadrennial quality of life review shall be designed to result in determinations, and to foster policies and actions, that reflect the priority given the quality of life of members of the armed forces as a primary concern of the Department of Defense leadership.
  (b) T4Conduct of ReviewK.–Each quadrennial quality of life review shall be conducted so as–
    (1) to assess quality of life priorities and issues consistent with the most recent National Security Strategy prescribed by the President pursuant to section 108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 404a);
    (2) to identify actions that are needed in order to provide members of the armed forces with the quality of life reasonably necessary to encourage the successful execution of the full range of missions that the members are called on to perform under the national security strategy; and
    (3) to identify other actions that have the potential for improving the quality of life of the members of the armed forces.
  (c) T4ConsiderationsK.–The Secretary shall consider addressing the following matters as part of the quadrennial quality of life review:
    (1) Infrastructure.
    (2) Military construction.
    (3) Physical conditions at military installations and other Department of Defense facilities.
    (4) Budget plans.
    (5) Adequacy of medical care for members of the armed forces and their dependents.
    (6) Adequacy of housing and the basic allowance for housing and basic allowance for subsistence.
    (7) Housing-related utility costs.
    (8) Educational opportunities and costs.
    (9) Length of deployments.
    (10) Rates of pay and pay differentials between the pay of members and the pay of civilians.
    (11) Retention and recruiting efforts.
    (12) Workplace safety.
    (13) Support services for spouses and children.
    (14) Other elements of Department of Defense programs and Government policies and programs that affect the quality of life of members.
  (d) T4Submission to Congressional CommitteesK.–(1) The Secretary shall submit a report on each quadrennial quality of life review to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives. The report shall include the following:
    (A) The assumptions used in the review.
    (B) The results of the review, including a comprehensive discussion of how the quality of life of members of the armed forces affects the national security strategy of the United States.
  (2) The report shall be submitted in the year following the year in which the review is conducted, but not later than the date on which the President submits the budget for the next fiscal year to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31.
