  (a) T4AuthorityK.–Notwithstanding the provisions of section 12302(a) or any other provision of law, when the President determines that it is necessary to augment the active forces for any operational mission or that it is necessary to provide assistance referred to in subsection (b), he may authorize the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Transportation with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, without the consent of the members concerned, to order any unit, and any member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit of the Selected Reserve (as defined in section 10143(a) of this title), or any member in the Individual Ready Reserve mobilization category and designated as essential under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, under their respective jurisdictions, to active duty (other than for training) for not more than 270 days.
  (b) T4Support for Responses to Certain EmergenciesK.–The authority under subsection (a) includes authority to order a unit or member to active duty to provide assistance in responding to an emergency involving a use or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction.
  (c) T4LimitationsK.–(1) No unit or member of a reserve component may be ordered to active duty under this section to perform any of the functions authorized by chapter 15 or section 12406 of this title or, except as provided in subsection (b), to provide assistance to either the Federal Government or a State in time of a serious natural or manmade disaster, accident, or catastrophe.
  (2) Not more than 200,000 members of the Selected Reserve and the Individual Ready Reserve may be on active duty under this section at any one time, of whom not more than 30,000 may be members of the Individual Ready Reserve.
  (d) T4Exclusion From Strength LimitationsK.–Members ordered to active duty under this section shall not be counted in computing authorized strength in members on active duty or members in grade under this title or any other law.
  (e) T4Policies and ProceduresK.–The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Transportation shall prescribe such policies and procedures for the armed forces under their respective jurisdictions as they consider necessary to carry out this section.
  (f) T4Notification of CongressK.–Whenever the President authorizes the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Transportation to order any unit or member of the Selected Reserve or Individual Ready Reserve to active duty, under the authority of subsection (a), he shall, within 24 hours after exercising such authority, submit to Congress a report, in writing, setting forth the circumstances necessitating the action taken under this section and describing the anticipated use of these units or members.
  (g) T4Termination of DutyK.–Whenever any unit of the Selected Reserve or any member of the Selected Reserve not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, or any member of the Individual Ready Reserve, is ordered to active duty under authority of subsection (a), the service of all units or members so ordered to active duty may be terminated by–
    (1) order of the President, or
    (2) law.
  (h) T4Relationship to War Powers ResolutionK.–Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as amending or limiting the application of the provisions of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
    (i) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
      (1) The term ””Individual Ready Reserve mobilization category““ means, in the case of any reserve component, the category of the Individual Ready Reserve described in section 10144(b) of this title.
      (2) The term ””weapon of mass destruction““ has the meaning given that term in section 1403 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2302(1)).
