  (a) Unless retired or separated earlier, each regular commissioned officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps (other than an officer who is a permanent professor, director of admissions, or registrar of the United States Military Academy or United States Air Force Academy or a commissioned warrant officer) shall be retired on the first day of the month following the month in which he becomes 62 years of age. An officer who is a permanent professor at the United States Military Academy or United States Air Force Academy, the director of admissions at the United States Military Academy, or the registrar of the United States Air Force Academy shall be retired on the first day of the month following the month in which he becomes 64 years of age.
  (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the President may defer the retirement of an officer serving in a position that carries a grade above major general or rear admiral, but such a deferment may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 64 years of age. Not more than ten deferments of retirement under this subsection may be in effect at any one time.
  (c)    (1) The Secretary concerned may defer the retirement under subsection (a) of a health professions officer if during the period of the deferment the officer will be performing duties consisting primarily of providing patient care or performing other clinical duties.
    (2) The Secretary concerned may defer the retirement under subsection (a) of an officer who is appointed or designated as a chaplain if the Secretary determines that such deferral is in the best interest of the military department concerned.
    (3)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a deferment under this subsection may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 68 years of age.
      (B) The Secretary concerned may extend a deferment under this subsection beyond the day referred to in subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines that extension of the deferment is necessary for the needs of the military department concerned. Such an extension shall be made on a case-by-case basis and shall be for such period as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (4) For purposes of this subsection, a health professions officer is–
      (A) a medical officer;
      (B) a dental officer; or
      (C) an officer in the Army Nurse Corps, an officer in the Navy Nurse Corps, or an officer in the Air Force designated as a nurse.
  (d) The Secretary concerned may defer the retirement under subsection (a) of an officer who is the Chief of Chaplains or Deputy Chief of Chaplains of that officer“s armed force. Such a deferment may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 68 years of age.
