  (a) T4Designation of National Contingency OperationsK.–The funding procedures prescribed by this section apply with respect to any operation involving the armed forces that is designated by the Secretary of Defense as a National Contingency Operation. Whenever the Secretary designates an operation as a National Contingency Operation, the Secretary shall promptly transmit notice of that designation in writing to Congress. This section does not provide authority for the President or the Secretary of Defense to carry out an operation, but applies to the Department of Defense mechanisms by which funds are provided for operations that the armed forces are required to carry out under some other authority.
  (b) T4Waiver of Requirement To Reimburse Support UnitsK.–(1) When an operating unit of the armed forces participating in a National Contingency Operation receives support services from a support unit of the armed forces that operates through the Defense Business Operations Fund (or a successor fund), that operating unit need not reimburse that support unit for the incremental costs incurred by the support unit in providing such support, notwithstanding any other provision of law or Government accounting practice.
  (2) The amounts which but for paragraph (1) would be required to be reimbursed to a support unit shall be recorded as an expense attributable to the operation and shall be accounted for separately.
  (3) The total of the unreimbursed sums for all National Contingency Operations may not exceed $300,000,000 at any one time.
  (c) T4Financial Plan for Contingency OperationsK.–(1) Within two months of the beginning of any National Contingency Operation, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a financial plan for the operation that sets forth the manner by which the Secretary proposes to obtain funds for the full cost to the United States of the operation.
  (2) The plan shall specify in detail how the Secretary proposes to make the Defense Business Operations Fund (or a successor fund) whole again.
  (d) T4Incremental CostsK.–For purposes of this section, incremental costs of the Department of Defense with respect to an operation are the costs that are directly attributable to the operation and that are otherwise chargeable to accounts available for operation and maintenance or for military personnel. Any costs which are otherwise chargeable to accounts available for procurement may not be considered to be incremental costs for purposes of this section.
  (e) T4Incremental Personnel Costs AccountK.–There is hereby established in the Department of Defense a reserve fund to be known as the ””National Contingency Operation Personnel Fund““. Amounts in the fund shall be available for incremental military personnel costs attributable to a National Contingency Operation. Amounts in the fund remain available until expended.
  (f) T4Coordination With War Powers ResolutionK.–This section may not be construed as altering or superseding the War Powers Resolution. This section does not provide authority to conduct a National Contingency Operation or any other operation.
  (g) T4GAO Compliance ReviewsK.–The Comptroller General of the United States shall from time to time, and when requested by a committee of Congress, conduct a review of the defense contingency funding structure under this section to determine whether the Department of Defense is complying with the requirements and limitations of this section.
  (h) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, the term ””National Contingency Operation““ means a military operation that is designated by the Secretary of Defense as an operation the cost of which, when considered with the cost of other ongoing or potential military operations, is expected to have a negative effect on training and readiness.
