  (a) T4AuthorityK.–(1) Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary of Defense may provide logistic support, supplies, and services to allied forces participating in a combined operation with the armed forces of the United States.
  (2) In addition to any logistic support, supplies, and services provided under paragraph (1), the Secretary may provide logistic support, supplies, and services to allied forces solely for the purpose of enhancing the interoperability of the logistical support systems of military forces participating in combined operations with the United States in order to facilitate such operations. Such logistic support, supplies, and services may also be provided under this paragraph to a nonmilitary logistics, security, or similar agency of an allied government if such provision would directly benefit the armed forces of the United States.
  (3) Provision of support, supplies, and services pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) may be made only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
  (b) T4LimitationsK.–(1) The authority provided by subsection (a)(1) may be used only in accordance with the Arms Export Control Act and other export control laws of the United States.
  (2) The authority provided by subsection (a)(1) may be used only for a combined operation–
    (A) that is carried out during active hostilities or as part of a contingency operation or a noncombat operation (including an operation in support of the provision of humanitarian or foreign disaster assistance, a country stabilization operation, or a peacekeeping operation under chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations); and
    (B) in a case in which the Secretary of Defense determines that the allied forces to be provided logistic support, supplies, and services–
      (i) are essential to the success of the combined operation; and
      (ii) would not be able to participate in the combined operation but for the provision of such logistic support, supplies, and services by the Secretary.
  (c) T4Limitations on ValueK.–(1) The value of logistic support, supplies, and services provided under subsection (a)(1) in any fiscal year may not exceed $100,000,000.
  (2) The value of the logistic support, supplies, and services provided under subsection (a)(2) in any fiscal year may not exceed $5,000,000.
  (d) T4Annual ReportK.–(1) Not later than December 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the use of the authority provided by subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal year.
  (2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall be prepared in coordination with the Secretary of State.
  (3) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, for the fiscal year covered by the report, the following:
    (A) Each nation provided logistic support, supplies, and services through the use of the authority provided by subsection (a).
    (B) For each such nation, a description of the type and value of logistic support, supplies, and services so provided.
  (e) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, the term ””logistic support, supplies, and services““ has the meaning given that term in section 2350(1) of this title.
