  (a) T4LimitationK.–Effective October 1, 2002, the number of management headquarters and headquarters support activities personnel in the Department of Defense may not exceed 75 percent of the baseline number.
  (b) T4Phased ReductionK.–The number of management headquarters and headquarters support activities personnel in the Department of Defense–
    (1) as of October 1, 1998, may not exceed 95 percent of the baseline number;
    (2) as of October 1, 1999, may not exceed 90 percent of the baseline number;
    (3) as of October 1, 2000, may not exceed 85 percent of the baseline number; and
    (4) as of October 1, 2001, may not exceed 80 percent of the baseline number.
  (c) T4Baseline NumberK.–In this section, the term ””baseline number““ means the number of management headquarters and headquarters support activities personnel in the Department of Defense as of October 1, 1997.
  (d) T4Limitation on Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Personnel Assigned to the United States Transportation CommandK.–(1) Effective October 1, 1998, the number of management headquarters activities and management headquarters support activities personnel assigned to, or employed in, the United States Transportation Command may not exceed the number equal to 95 percent of the number of such personnel as of October 1, 1997.
  (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the United States Transportation Command shall be considered to include the following:
    (A) The United States Transportation Command Headquarters.
    (B) The Air Mobility Command of the Air Force.
    (C) The Military Sealift Command of the Navy.
    (D) The Military Traffic Management Command of the Army.
    (E) The Defense Courier Service.
    (F) Any other element of the Department of Defense assigned to the United States Transportation Command.
  (3) The Secretary of Defense may waive or suspend operation of paragraph (1) in the event of a war or national emergency.
  (e) T4Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activities Personnel DefinedK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””management headquarters and headquarters support activities personnel““ means military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense who are assigned to, or employed in, functions in management headquarters activities or in management headquarters support activities.
    (2) The terms ””management headquarters activities““ and ””management headquarters support activities““ have the meanings given those terms in Department of Defense Directive 5100.73, entitled ””Department of Defense Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activities““, as in effect on November 12, 1996.
  (f) T4Limitation on Reassignment of FunctionsK.–In carrying out reductions in the number of personnel assigned to, or employed in, management headquarters and headquarters support activities in order to comply with this section, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments may not reassign functions in order to evade the requirements of this section.
  (g) T4FlexibilityK.–If the Secretary of Defense determines, and certifies to Congress, that the limitation in subsection (b) with respect to any fiscal year would adversely affect United States national security, the Secretary may waive the limitation under that subsection with respect to that fiscal year. If the Secretary of Defense determines, and certifies to Congress, that the limitation in subsection (a) during fiscal year 2001 would adversely affect United States national security, the Secretary may waive the limitation under that subsection with respect to that fiscal year. The authority under this subsection may be used only once, with respect to a single fiscal year.
