  (a) T4Use of Retired Pay Base in Computing Retired Pay.–
    (1) T4General ruleK.–The retired pay or retainer pay of any person entitled to that pay who first became a member of a uniformed service before September 8, 1980, is computed using the retired pay base or retainer pay base determined under this section.
    (2) T4Exception for recomputationK.–Recomputation of retired or retainer pay to reflect later active duty is provided for under section 1402 of this title without reference to a retired pay base or retainer pay base.
  (b) T4Retirement Under Subtitle A or E.–
    (1) T4Disability, warrant officer, and dopma retirementK.–In the case of a person whose retired pay is computed under this subtitle, the retired pay base is determined in accordance with the following table.
        
       oi0xl1201
       oi0xl 580
       oi0xl 633
    (2) T4Non-regular service retirementK.–In the case of a person who is entitled to retired pay under section 12731 of this title, the retired pay base is the monthly basic pay, determined at the rates applicable on the date when retired pay is granted, of the highest grade held satisfactorily by the person at any time in the armed forces. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the highest grade in which a person served satisfactorily as an officer shall be determined in accordance with section 1370(d) of this title.
  (c) T4Voluntary Retirement for Members of the Army.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–In the case of a member whose retired pay is computed under section 3991 of this title or who is entitled to retired pay computed under section 3992 of this title, the retired pay base is determined in accordance with the following table.
        
       oi0xl3911
       oi0xl3914
       oi0xl3992 DMonthly basic pay of grade to which member is advanced on retired list.
    (2) T4Rate of basic pay to be usedK.–The rate of basic pay to be used under paragraph (1) is the rate applicable on the date of the member“s retirement.
  (d) T4Retirement for Members of the Navy and Marine CorpsK.–In the case of a member whose retired pay is computed under section 6333 of this title, who is advanced on the retired list under section 6151 or 6334 of this title, or who is entitled to retainer pay under section 6330 of this title, the retired pay base or retainer pay base is determined in accordance with the following table.
      
     oi0xl6323  
     oi0xl6325(b) DBasic pay of the grade the officer would hold if he had not received an appointment described in section 6325(b).
     oi0xl6326   DBasic pay of the pay grade in which the member was serving on the day before retirement.
     oi0xl6330   DBasic pay that the member received at the time of transfer to the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve.
     oi0xl6151   DBasic pay of the grade to which the member is advanced under section 6151.
     oi06334  DBasic pay of the grade to which the member is advanced under section 6334.
  (e) T4Voluntary Retirement for Members of the Air Force.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–In the case of a member whose retired pay is computed under section 8991 of this title or who is entitled to retired pay computed under section 8992 of this title, the retired pay base is determined in accordance with the following table.
        
       oi0xl8911
       oi0xl8914
       oi0xl8992 DMonthly basic pay of grade to which member is advanced on retired list.
    (2) T4Rate of basic pay to be usedK.–The rate of basic pay to be used under paragraph (1) is the rate applicable on the date of the member“s retirement.
  (f) T4Coast GuardK.–In the case of a member who is retired under any section of title 14, the member“s retired pay is computed under section 423(a) of title 14 in the manner provided in that section.
  (g) T4Commissioned Corps of National Oceanic and Atmospheric AdministrationK.–In the case of an officer whose retired pay is computed under section 305 \1\N of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officers Act of 2002, the retired pay base is the basic pay of the rank with which the officer retired.
  (h) T4Commissioned Corps of Public Health ServiceK.–In the case of an officer who is retired under section 210(g) or 211(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 211(g), 212(a)), the retired pay base is determined as follows:
    (1) T4Mandatory retirementK.–If the officer is retired under section 210(g) of such Act, the retired pay base is the basic pay of the permanent grade held by the officer at the time of retirement.
    (2) T4Voluntary retirementK.–If the officer is retired under section 211(a) of such Act, the retired pay base is the basic pay of the highest grade held by the officer and in which, in the case of a temporary promotion to such grade, the officer has performed active duty for not less than six months.
      (i) T4Special Rule for Former Chairmen and Vice Chairmen of the JCS, Chiefs of Service, and Senior Enlisted Members.–
        (1) T4In generalK.–For the purposes of subsections (b) through (e), in determining the rate of basic pay to apply in the determination of the retired pay base of a member who has served as Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as a Chief of Service, or as the senior enlisted member of an armed force, the highest rate of basic pay applicable to the member while serving in that position shall be used, if that rate is higher than the rate otherwise authorized by this section.
        (2) T4Exception for members reduced in grade or who do not serve satisfactorilyK.–Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of a member who, while or after serving in a position specified in that paragraph and by reason of conduct occurring after October 16, 1998–
          (A) in the case of an enlisted member, is reduced in grade as the result of a court-martial sentence, nonjudicial punishment, or other administrative process; or
          (B) in the case an officer, is not certified by the Secretary of Defense under section 1370(c) of this title as having served on active duty satisfactorily in the grade of general or admiral, as the case may be, while serving in that position.
        (3) T4DefinitionsK.–In this subsection:
          (A) The term ””Chief of Service““ means any of the following:
            (i) Chief of Staff of the Army.
            (ii) Chief of Naval Operations.
            (iii) Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
            (iv) Commandant of the Marine Corps.
            (v) Commandant of the Coast Guard.
          (B) The term ””senior enlisted member““ means any of the following:
            (i) Sergeant Major of the Army.
            (ii) Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy.
            (iii) Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force.
            (iv) Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps.
            (v) Master Chief Petty Officer of the Coast Guard.
