  (a) T4AuthorityK.–The Secretary concerned shall pay to each eligible disabled uniformed services retiree a monthly amount determined under subsection (b). If the provisions of subsection (a) of section 1414 of this title become effective in accordance with subsection (f) of that section, payments under this section shall be terminated effective as of the month beginning on the effective date specified in subsection (e) of that section.
  (b) T4AmountK.–The amount to be paid to an eligible disabled uniformed services retiree in accordance with subsection (a) is the following:
    (1) For payments for months beginning with February 2002 and ending with December 2002, the following:
      (A) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as total, $300.
      (B) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 90 percent, $200.
      (C) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 80 percent or 70 percent, $100.
      (D) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 60 percent, $50.
    (2) For payments for months beginning with January 2003 and ending with September 2004, the following:
      (A) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as total, $325.
      (B) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 90 percent, $225.
      (C) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 80 percent, $125.
      (D) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 70 percent, $100.
      (E) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 60 percent, $50.
    (3) For payments for months after September 2004, the following:
      (A) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as total, $350.
      (B) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 90 percent, $250.
      (C) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 80 percent, $150.
      (D) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 70 percent, $125.
      (E) For any month for which the retiree has a qualifying service-connected disability rated as 60 percent, $50.
  (c) T4Eligible MembersK.–An eligible disabled uniformed services retiree referred to in subsection (a) is a member of the uniformed services in a retired status who–
    (1) completed at least 20 years of service in the uniformed services that are creditable for purposes of computing the amount of retired pay to which the member is entitled; and
    (2) has a qualifying service-connected disability.
  (d) T4Qualifying Service-Connected Disability DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””qualifying service-connected disability““ means a service-connected disability that–
    (1) was incurred or aggravated in the performance of duty as a member of a uniformed service, as determined by the Secretary concerned; and
    (2) is rated as not less than 60 percent disabling–
      (A) by the Secretary concerned as of the date on which the member is retired from the uniformed services; or
      (B) by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs within four years following the date on which the member is retired from the uniformed services.
  (e) T4Construction with Special Compensation for Combat-Disabled Uniformed Services RetireesK.–(1) An individual who is paid special compensation under this section may not receive special compensation under section 1413a of this title.
  (2) An individual who is eligible for special compensation under this section and special compensation under section 1413a of this title shall elect which special compensation to receive.
  (3) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe in regulations the manner and form of an election under this subsection.
  (f) T4Status of PaymentsK.–Payments under this section are not retired pay.
  (g) T4Source of FundsK.–Payments under this section for any fiscal year shall be paid out of funds appropriated for pay and allowances payable by the Secretary concerned for that fiscal year.
  (h) T4Other DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””service-connected““ has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 38.
    (2) The term ””disability rated as total““ means–
      (A) a disability that is rated as total under the standard schedule of rating disabilities in use by the Department of Veterans Affairs; or
      (B) a disability for which the scheduled rating is less than total but for which a rating of total is assigned by reason of inability of the disabled person concerned to secure or follow a substantially gainful occupation as a result of service-connected disabilities.
    (3) The term ””retired pay““ includes retainer pay, emergency officers“ retirement pay, and naval pension.
