  (a)    (1) The program established by this subchapter shall be known as the Survivor Benefit Plan. The following persons are eligible to participate in the Plan:
      (A) Persons entitled to retired pay.
      (B) Persons who would be eligible for reserve-component retired pay but for the fact that they are under 60 years of age.
    (2) The Plan applies–
      (A) to a person who is eligible to participate in the Plan under paragraph (1)(A) and who is married or has a dependent child when he becomes entitled to retired pay, unless he elects (with his spouse“s concurrence, if required under paragraph (3)) not to participate in the Plan before the first day for which he is eligible for that pay; and
      (B) to a person who (i) is eligible to participate in the Plan under paragraph (1)(B), (ii) is married or has a dependent child when he is notified under section 12731(d) of this title that he has completed the years of service required for eligibility for reserve-component retired pay, and (iii) elects to participate in the Plan (and makes a designation under subsection (e)) before the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date he receives such notification.
         A person described in subclauses (i) and (ii) of clause (B) who does not elect to participate in the Plan before the end of the 90-day period referred to in such clause shall remain eligible, upon reaching 60 years of age and otherwise becoming entitled to retired pay, to participate in the Plan in accordance with eligibility under paragraph (1)(A).
    (3)      (A) A married person who is eligible to provide a standard annuity may not without the concurrence of the person“s spouse elect–
        (i) not to participate in the Plan;
        (ii) to provide an annuity for the person“s spouse at less than the maximum level; or
        (iii) to provide an annuity for a dependent child but not for the person“s spouse.
      (B) A married person who elects to provide a reserve-component annuity may not without the concurrence of the person“s spouse elect–
        (i) to provide an annuity for the person“s spouse at less than the maximum level; or
        (ii) to provide an annuity for a dependent child but not for the person“s spouse.
      (C) A person may make an election described in subparagraph (A) or (B) without the concurrence of the person“s spouse if the person establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary concerned–
        (i) that the spouse“s whereabouts cannot be determined; or
        (ii) that, due to exceptional circumstances, requiring the person to seek the spouse“s consent would otherwise be inappropriate.
      (D) This paragraph does not affect any right or obligation to elect to provide an annuity for a former spouse (or for a former spouse and dependent child) under subsection (b)(2).
      (E) If a married person who is eligible to provide a standard annuity elects to provide an annuity for a former spouse (or for a former spouse and dependent child) under subsection (b)(2), that person“s spouse shall be notified of that election.
    (4)      (A) An election under paragraph (2)(A) not to participate in the Plan is irrevocable if not revoked before the date on which the person first becomes entitled to retired pay.
      (B) An election under paragraph (2)(B) to participate in the Plan is irrevocable if not revoked before the end of the 90-day period referred to in such paragraph.
    (5) A person who is not married when he becomes eligible to participate in the Plan but who later marries or acquires a dependent child may elect to participate in the Plan, but his election must be written, signed by him, and received by the Secretary concerned within one year after he marries or acquires that dependent child. Such an election may not be revoked except in accordance with subsection (b)(3). His election is effective as of the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which his election is received by the Secretary concerned. In the case of a person providing a reserve-component annuity, such an election shall include a designation under subsection (e).
    (6)      (A) A person–
        (i) who is a participant in the Plan and is providing coverage for a spouse or a spouse and child;
        (ii) who does not have an eligible spouse beneficiary under the Plan; and
        (iii) who remarries,
           may elect not to provide coverage under the Plan for the person“s spouse.
      (B) If such an election is made, no reduction in the retired pay of such person under section 1452 of this title may be made. An election under this paragraph–
        (i) is irrevocable;
        (ii) shall be made within one year after the person“s remarriage; and
        (iii) shall be made in such form and manner as may be prescribed in regulations under section 1455 of this title.
      (C) If a person makes an election under this paragraph–
        (i) not to participate in the Plan;
        (ii) to provide an annuity for the person“s spouse at less than the maximum level; or
        (iii) to provide an annuity for a dependent child but not for the person“s spouse,
           the person“s spouse shall be notified of that election.
      (D) This paragraph does not affect any right or obligation to elect to provide an annuity to a former spouse under subsection (b).
  (b)    (1)      (A) A person who is not married and does not have a dependent child when he becomes eligible to participate in the Plan may elect to provide an annuity to a natural person with an insurable interest in that person. In the case of a person providing a reserve-component annuity, such an election shall include a designation under subsection (e).
      (B) An election under subparagraph (A) for a beneficiary who is not the former spouse of the person providing the annuity may be terminated. Any such termination shall be made by a participant by the submission to the Secretary concerned of a request to discontinue participation in the Plan, and such participation in the Plan shall be discontinued effective on the first day of the first month following the month in which the request is received by the Secretary concerned. Effective on such date, the Secretary concerned shall discontinue the reduction being made in such person“s retired pay on account of participation in the Plan or, in the case of a person who has been required to make deposits in the Treasury on account of participation in the Plan, such person may discontinue making such deposits effective on such date.
      (C) A request under subparagraph (B) to discontinue participation in the Plan shall be in such form and shall contain such information as may be required under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
      (D) The Secretary concerned shall furnish promptly to each person who submits a request under subparagraph (B) to discontinue participation in the Plan a written statement of the advantages and disadvantages of participating in the Plan and the possible disadvantages of discontinuing participation. A person may withdraw the request to discontinue participation if withdrawn within 30 days after having been submitted to the Secretary concerned.
      (E) Once participation is discontinued, benefits may not be paid in conjunction with the earlier participation in the Plan and premiums paid may not be refunded. Participation in the Plan may not later be resumed except through a qualified election under paragraph (5) of subsection (a).
    (2) A person who has a former spouse when he becomes eligible to participate in the Plan may elect to provide an annuity to that former spouse. In the case of a person with a spouse or a dependent child, such an election prevents payment of an annuity to that spouse or child (other than a child who is a beneficiary under an election under paragraph (4)), including payment under subsection (d). If there is more than one former spouse, the person shall designate which former spouse is to be provided the annuity. In the case of a person providing a reserve-component annuity, such an election shall include a designation under subsection (e).
    (3)      (A) A person–
        (i) who is a participant in the Plan and is providing coverage for a spouse or a spouse and child (even though there is no beneficiary currently eligible for such coverage), and
        (ii) who has a former spouse who was not that person“s former spouse when he became eligible to participate in the Plan,
           may (subject to subparagraph (B)) elect to provide an annuity to that former spouse. Any such election terminates any previous coverage under the Plan and must be written, signed by the person, and received by the Secretary concerned within one year after the date of the decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment.
      (B) A person may not make an election under subparagraph (A) to provide an annuity to a former spouse who that person married after becoming eligible for retired pay unless–
        (i) the person was married to that former spouse for at least one year, or
        (ii) that former spouse is the parent of issue by that marriage.
      (C) An election under this paragraph may not be revoked except in accordance with section 1450(f) of this title and is effective as of the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which it is received by the Secretary concerned. This paragraph does not provide the authority to change a designation previously made under subsection (e).
      (D) If a person who is married makes an election to provide an annuity to a former spouse under this paragraph, that person“s spouse shall be notified of that election.
    (4) A person who elects to provide an annuity for a former spouse under paragraph (2) or (3) may, at the time of the election, elect to provide coverage under that annuity for both the former spouse and a dependent child, if the child resulted from the person“s marriage to that former spouse.
    (5) A person who elects to provide an annuity to a former spouse under paragraph (2) or (3) shall, at the time of making the election, provide the Secretary concerned with a written statement (in a form to be prescribed by that Secretary and signed by such person and the former spouse) setting forth (A) whether the election is being made pursuant to the requirements of a court order, or (B) whether the election is being made pursuant to a written agreement previously entered into voluntarily by such person as a part of or incident to a proceeding of divorce, dissolution, or annulment and (if so) whether such voluntary written agreement has been incorporated in, or ratified or approved by, a court order.
  (c) The application of the Plan to a person whose name is on the temporary disability retired list terminates when his name is removed from that list and he is no longer entitled to disability retired pay.
  (d)    (1) The Secretary concerned shall pay an annuity under this subchapter to the surviving spouse of a member who dies on active duty after–
      (A) becoming eligible to receive retired pay;
      (B) qualifying for retired pay except that he has not applied for or been granted that pay; or
      (C) completing 20 years of active service but before he is eligible to retire as a commissioned officer because he has not completed 10 years of active commissioned service.
    (2) The Secretary concerned shall pay an annuity under this subchapter to the dependent child of a member described in paragraph (1) if there is no surviving spouse or if the member“s surviving spouse subsequently dies.
    (3) If a member described in paragraph (1) is required under a court order or spousal agreement to provide an annuity to a former spouse upon becoming eligible to be a participant in the Plan or has made an election under subsection (b) to provide an annuity to a former spouse, the Secretary–
      (A) may not pay an annuity under paragraph (1) or (2); but
      (B) shall pay an annuity to that former spouse as if the member had been a participant in the Plan and had made an election under subsection (b) to provide an annuity to the former spouse, or in accordance with that election, as the case may be, if the Secretary receives a written request from the former spouse concerned that the election be deemed to have been made in the same manner as provided in section 1450(f)(3) of this title.
    (4) An annuity that may be provided under this subsection shall be provided in preference to an annuity that may be provided under any other provision of this subchapter on account of service of the same member.
    (5) The amount of an annuity under this subsection is computed under section 1451(c) of this title.
  (e) In any case in which a person electing to participate in the Plan is required to make a designation under this subsection, the person making such election shall designate whether, in the event he dies before becoming 60 years of age, the annuity provided shall become effective on the day after the date of his death or on the 60th anniversary of his birth.
  (f)    (1) The Secretary concerned shall pay an annuity under this subchapter to the surviving spouse of a person who is eligible to provide a reserve-component annuity and who dies–
      (A) before being notified under section 12731(d) of this title that he has completed the years of service required for eligibility for reserve-component retired pay; or
      (B) during the 90-day period beginning on the date he receives notification under section 12731(d) of this title that he has completed the years of service required for eligibility for reserve-component retired pay if he had not made an election under subsection (a)(2)(B) to participate in the Plan.
    (2) The Secretary concerned shall pay an annuity under this subchapter to the dependent child of a person described in paragraph (1) if there is no surviving spouse or if the person“s surviving spouse subsequently dies.
    (3) If a person described in paragraph (1) is required under a court order or spousal agreement to provide an annuity to a former spouse upon becoming eligible to be a participant in the Plan or has made an election under subsection (b) to provide an annuity to a former spouse, the Secretary–
      (A) may not pay an annuity under paragraph (1) or (2); but
      (B) shall pay an annuity to that former spouse as if the person had been a participant in the Plan and had made an election under subsection (b) to provide an annuity to the former spouse, or in accordance with that election, as the case may be, if the Secretary receives a written request from the former spouse concerned that the election be deemed to have been made in the same manner as provided in section 1450(f)(3) of this title.
    (4) The amount of an annuity under this subsection is computed under section 1451(c) of this title.““.
  (g)    (1) A person–
      (A) who is a participant in the Plan and is providing coverage under subsection (a) for a spouse or a spouse and child, but at less than the maximum level; and
      (B) who remarries,
         may elect, within one year of such remarriage, to increase the level of coverage provided under the Plan to a level not in excess of the current retired pay of that person.
    (2) Such an election shall be contingent on the person paying to the United States the amount determined under paragraph (3) plus interest on such amount at a rate determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
    (3) The amount referred to in paragraph (2) is the amount equal to the difference between–
      (A) the amount that would have been withheld from such person“s retired pay under section 1452 of this title if the higher level of coverage had been in effect from the time the person became a participant in the Plan; and
      (B) the amount of such person“s retired pay actually withheld.
    (4) An election under paragraph (1) shall be made in such manner as the Secretary shall prescribe and shall become effective upon receipt of the payment required by paragraph (2).
    (5) A payment received under this subsection by the Secretary of Defense shall be deposited into the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund. Any other payment received under this subsection shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
