  (a) T4AuthorityK.–A participant in the Plan may, subject to the provisions of this section, elect to discontinue participation in the Plan at any time during the one-year period beginning on the second anniversary of the date on which payment of retired pay to the participant commences.
  (b) T4Concurrence of Spouse.–
    (1) T4Concurrence requiredK.–A married participant may not (except as provided in paragraph (2)) make an election under subsection (a) without the concurrence of the participant“s spouse.
    (2) T4ExceptionsK.–A participant may make such an election without the concurrence of the participant“s spouse by establishing to the satisfaction of the Secretary concerned that one of the conditions specified in section 1448(a)(3)(C) of this title exists.
    (3) T4Form of concurrenceK.–The concurrence of a spouse under paragraph (1) shall be made in such written form and shall contain such information as may be required under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
  (c) T4Limitation on Election When Former Spouse Coverage in EffectK.–The limitation set forth in section 1450(f)(2) of this title applies to an election to discontinue participation in the Plan under subsection (a).
  (d) T4Withdrawal of Election To DiscontinueK.–Section 1448(b)(1)(D) of this title applies to an election under subsection (a).
  (e) T4Consequences of DiscontinuationK.–Section 1448(b)(1)(E) of this title applies to an election under subsection (a).
  (f) T4Notice to Affected BeneficiariesK.–The Secretary concerned shall notify any former spouse or other natural person previously designated under section 1448(b) of this title of an election to discontinue participation under subsection (a).
  (g) T4Effective Date of ElectionK.–An election under subsection (a) is effective as of the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which the election is received by the Secretary concerned.
  (h) T4Inapplicability of Irrevocability ProvisionsK.–Paragraphs (4)(B) and (5)(C) of section 1448(a) of this title do not apply to prevent an election under subsection (a).
