  (a) T4Collection of DNA SamplesK.–(1) The Secretary concerned shall collect a DNA sample from each member of the armed forces under the Secretary“s jurisdiction who is, or has been, convicted of a qualifying military offense (as determined under subsection (d)).
  (2) For each member described in paragraph (1), if the Combined DNA Index System (in this section referred to as ””CODIS““) of the Federal Bureau of Investigation contains a DNA analysis with respect to that member, or if a DNA sample has been or is to be collected from that member under section 3(a) of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000, the Secretary concerned may (but need not) collect a DNA sample from that member.
  (3) The Secretary concerned may enter into agreements with other Federal agencies, units of State or local government, or private entities to provide for the collection of samples described in paragraph (1).
  (b) T4Analysis and Use of SamplesK.–The Secretary concerned shall furnish each DNA sample collected under subsection (a) to the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary of Defense shall–
    (1) carry out a DNA analysis on each such DNA sample in a manner that complies with the requirements for inclusion of that analysis in CODIS; and
    (2) furnish the results of each such analysis to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for inclusion in CODIS.
  (c) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””DNA sample““ means a tissue, fluid, or other bodily sample of an individual on which a DNA analysis can be carried out.
    (2) The term ””DNA analysis““ means analysis of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) identification information in a bodily sample.
  (d) T4Qualifying Military OffensesK.–(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Attorney General, shall determine those felony or sexual offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice that shall be treated for purposes of this section as qualifying military offenses.
  (2) An offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice that is comparable to a qualifying Federal offense (as determined under section 3(d) of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000), as determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Attorney General, shall be treated for purposes of this section as a qualifying military offense.
  (e) T4ExpungementK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall promptly expunge, from the index described in subsection (a) of section 210304 of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, the DNA analysis of a person included in the index on the basis of a qualifying military offense if the Secretary receives, for each conviction of the person of a qualifying offense, a certified copy of a final court order establishing that such conviction has been overturned.
  (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the term ””qualifying offense““ means any of the following offenses:
    (A) A qualifying Federal offense, as determined under section 3 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000.
    (B) A qualifying District of Columbia offense, as determined under section 4 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000.
    (C) A qualifying military offense.
  (3) For purposes of paragraph (1), a court order is not ””final““ if time remains for an appeal or application for discretionary review with respect to the order.
  (f) T4RegulationsK.–This section shall be carried out under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General. Those regulations shall apply, to the extent practicable, uniformly throughout the armed forces.
