  (a) T4AuthorizationK.–(1) The Secretary concerned may authorize an employee described in paragraph (2) to serve without compensation as a director, officer, or trustee, or to otherwise participate, in the management of an entity designated under subsection (b). Any such authorization shall be made on a case-by-case basis, for a particular employee to participate in a specific capacity with a specific designated entity. Such authorization may be made only for the purpose of providing oversight and advice to, and coordination with, the designated entity, and participation of the employee in the activities of the designated entity may not extend to participation in the day-to-day operations of the entity.
  (2) Paragraph (1) applies to any employee of the Department of Defense or, in the case of the Coast Guard when not operating as a service in the Navy, of the Department of Homeland Security. For purposes of this section, the term ””employee““ includes a civilian officer.
  (b) T4Designated EntitiesK.–The Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, shall designate those entities for which authorization under subsection (a) may be provided. The list of entities so designated may not be revised more frequently than semiannually. In making such designations, the Secretary shall designate each military welfare society named in paragraph (2) of section 1033(b) of this title and may designate any other entity described in paragraph (3) of such section. No other entities may be designated.
  (c) T4Publication of Designated Entities and of Authorized PersonsK.–A designation of an entity under subsection (b), and an authorization under subsection (a) of an employee to participate in the management of such an entity, shall be published in the Federal Register.
  (d) T4Civilians Outside the Military DepartmentsK.–In this section, the term ””Secretary concerned““ includes the Secretary of Defense with respect to employees of the Department of Defense who are not employees of a military department.
  (e) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
