  (a) T4AuthorityK.–The Secretary of Defense may appoint in the excepted service without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (except as provided in section 3328 of such title and in subsection (c) of this section) an individual who has–
    (1) a recognized degree or certificate from an accredited institution in a covered health care profession or occupation; and
    (2) successfully completed a clinical education program affiliated with the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  (b) T4Covered Health Care Profession or OccupationK.–For purposes of subsection (a), a covered health care profession or occupation is any of the following:
    (1) Physician.
    (2) Dentist.
    (3) Podiatrist.
    (4) Optometrist.
    (5) Nurse.
    (6) Physician assistant.
    (7) Expanded-function dental auxiliary.
  (c) T4Preferences in HiringK.–In using the authority provided by this section, the Secretary shall apply the principles of preference for the hiring of veterans and other individuals established in subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5.
  (d) T4Probationary PeriodK.–There shall be an initial probationary period of two years for appointments made under the authority of this section.
  (e) T4Promotions and AdvancementK.–(1) Promotions of individuals appointed under the authority of this section shall be made only after an examination performed in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
  (2) Advancement of such individuals within a pay grade may be made in increments of the minimum rate of basic pay of the grade in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
  (f) T4Review of Records by BoardK.–The record of each individual appointed under the authority of this section in the medical, dental, and nursing services shall be reviewed periodically by a board, which shall be appointed in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. If such board finds that such individual is not fully qualified and satisfactory, such individual shall be separated from service.
  (g) T4Adjustment of PayK.–In accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, the grade and annual rate of basic pay of an individual appointed under this section whose level of assignment is changed from a level of assignment in which the grade level is based on both the nature of the assignment and qualifications may be adjusted to the grade and annual rate of basic pay otherwise appropriate.
  (h) T4Appointment to Additional PositionsK.–(1) The Secretary may use the authority of this subsection (subject to paragraph (2)) to establish the qualifications for, and appoint and advance an individual in the Department of Defense as–
    (A) a clinical or counseling psychologist (if such psychologist holds a diploma as a diplomate in psychology from an accrediting authority approved by the Secretary);
    (B) a certified or registered respiratory therapist;
    (C) a licensed physical therapist;
    (D) a licensed practical or vocational nurse;
    (E) a pharmacist; or
    (F) an occupational therapist.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title or any other law, all matters relating to adverse actions, disciplinary actions, and grievance procedures involving an individual appointed to a position described in paragraph (1) (including such actions and procedures involving an employee in a probationary status) shall be resolved under the provisions of title 5 as though such individual had been appointed under such title.
    (i) T4ReinstatementK.–In determining eligibility for reinstatement in the civil service of individuals appointed to positions in the Department of Defense under this section who at the time of appointment have a civil service status and whose employment in the Department of Defense is terminated, the period of service performed in the Department shall be included in computing the period of service under applicable civil service regulations.
