  (a)    (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Secretary of Defense may repay–
      (A) any loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.);
      (B) any loan made under part D of such title (the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.); or
      (C) any loan made under part E of such title (20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.).
         Repayment of any such loan shall be made on the basis of each complete year of service performed by the borrower.
    (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary of Defense may repay loans described in paragraph (1) in the case of any person for service performed as an enlisted member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve of an armed force in a reserve component and military specialty specified by the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary may repay such a loan only if the person to whom the loan was made performed such service after the loan was made.
    (3) In the case of a commitment made by the Secretary of Defense after the date of the enactment of this paragraph to repay a loan under paragraph (1) conditioned upon the performance by the borrower of service as an enlisted member under paragraph (2), the Secretary may repay the loan for service performed by the borrower as an officer (rather than as an enlisted member) in the case of a borrower who, after such commitment is entered into and while performing service as an enlisted member, accepts an appointment or commission as a warrant officer or commissioned officer of the Selected Reserve.
  (b) The portion or amount of a loan that may be repaid under subsection (a) is 15 percent or $500, whichever is greater, for each year of service, plus the amount of any interest that may accrue during the current year.
  (c) If a portion of a loan is repaid under this section for any year, interest on the remainder of the loan shall accrue and be paid in the same manner as is otherwise required. For the purposes of this section, any interest that has accrued on the loan for periods before the current year shall be considered as within the total loan amount that shall be repaid.
  (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize refunding any repayment of a loan.
  (e) A person who transfers from service making the person eligible for repayment of loans under this section (as described in subsection (a)(2)) to service making the person eligible for repayment of loans under section 2171 of this title (as described in subsection (a)(2) of that section) during a year shall be eligible to have repaid a portion of such loan determined by giving appropriate fractional credit for each portion of the year so served, in accordance with regulations of the Secretary concerned.
  (f) The Secretary of Defense shall, by regulation, prescribe a schedule for the allocation of funds made available to carry out the provisions of this section and section 2171 of this title during any year for which funds are not sufficient to pay the sum of the amounts eligible for repayment under subsection (a) and section 2171(a) of this title.
  (g) The Secretary of Homeland Security may repay loans described in subsection (a)(1) and otherwise administer this section in the case of members of the Selected Reserve of the Coast Guard Reserve when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy.
