  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–With the advice and assistance of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the President, through the Secretary of Defense, shall establish under section 161 of this title a unified combatant command for special operations forces (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””special operations command““). The principal function of the command is to prepare special operations forces to carry out assigned missions.
  (b) T4Assignment of ForcesK.–Unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of Defense, all active and reserve special operations forces of the armed forces stationed in the United States shall be assigned to the special operations command.
  (c) T4Grade of CommanderK.–The commander of the special operations command shall hold the grade of general or, in the case of an officer of the Navy, admiral while serving in that position, without vacating his permanent grade. The commander of such command shall be appointed to that grade by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for service in that position.
  (d) T4Command of Activity or MissionK.–(1) Unless otherwise directed by the President or the Secretary of Defense, a special operations activity or mission shall be conducted under the command of the commander of the unified combatant command in whose geographic area the activity or mission is to be conducted.
  (2) The commander of the special operations command shall exercise command of a selected special operations mission if directed to do so by the President or the Secretary of Defense.
  (e) T4Authority of Combatant CommanderK.–(1) In addition to the authority prescribed in section 164(c) of this title, the commander of the special operations command shall be responsible for, and shall have the authority to conduct, all affairs of such command relating to special operations activities.
  (2) The commander of such command shall be responsible for, and shall have the authority to conduct, the following functions relating to special operations activities (whether or not relating to the special operations command):
    (A) Developing strategy, doctrine, and tactics.
    (B) Preparing and submitting to the Secretary of Defense program recommendations and budget proposals for special operations forces and for other forces assigned to the special operations command.
    (C) Exercising authority, direction, and control over the expenditure of funds–
      (i) for forces assigned to the special operations command; and
      (ii) for special operations forces assigned to unified combatant commands other than the special operations command, with respect to all matters covered by paragraph (4) and, with respect to a matter not covered by paragraph (4), to the extent directed by the Secretary of Defense.
    (D) Training assigned forces.
    (E) Conducting specialized courses of instruction for commissioned and noncommissioned officers.
    (F) Validating requirements.
    (G) Establishing priorities for requirements.
    (H) Ensuring the interoperability of equipment and forces.
    (I) Formulating and submitting requirements for intelligence support.
    (J) Monitoring the promotions, assignments, retention, training, and professional military education of special operations forces officers.
  (3) The commander of the special operations command shall be responsible for–
    (A) ensuring the combat readiness of forces assigned to the special operations command; and
    (B) monitoring the preparedness to carry out assigned missions of special operations forces assigned to unified combatant commands other than the special operations command.
  (4)    (A) The commander of the special operations command shall be responsible for, and shall have the authority to conduct, the following:
      (i) Development and acquisition of special operations-peculiar equipment.
      (ii) Acquisition of special operations-peculiar material, supplies, and services.
    (B) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the commander of the command, in carrying out his functions under subparagraph (A), shall have authority to exercise the functions of the head of an agency under chapter 137 of this title.
    (C) The staff of the commander shall include an inspector general who shall conduct internal audits and inspections of purchasing and contracting actions through the special operations command and such other inspector general functions as may be assigned.
  (f) T4BudgetK.–In addition to the activities of a combatant command for which funding may be requested under section 166(b) of this title, the budget proposal of the special operations command shall include requests for funding for–
    (1) development and acquisition of special operations-peculiar equipment; and
    (2) acquisition of other material, supplies, or services that are peculiar to special operations activities.
  (g) T4Intelligence and Special ActivitiesK.–This section does not constitute authority to conduct any activity which, if carried out as an intelligence activity by the Department of Defense, would require a notice to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.).
  (h) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations for the activities of the special operations command. Such regulations shall include authorization for the commander of such command to provide for operational security of special operations forces and activities.
    (i) T4Identification of Special Operations ForcesK.–(1) Subject to paragraph (2), for the purposes of this section special operations forces are those forces of the armed forces that–
      (A) are identified as core forces or as augmenting forces in the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan, Annex E, dated December 17, 1985;
      (B) are described in the Terms of Reference and Conceptual Operations Plan for the Joint Special Operations Command, as in effect on April 1, 1986; or
      (C) are designated as special operations forces by the Secretary of Defense.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense, after consulting with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the commander of the special operations command, may direct that any force included within the description in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B) shall not be considered as a special operations force for the purposes of this section.
  (j) T4Special Operations ActivitiesK.–For purposes of this section, special operations activities include each of the following insofar as it relates to special operations:
    (1) Direct action.
    (2) Strategic reconnaissance.
    (3) Unconventional warfare.
    (4) Foreign internal defense.
    (5) Civil affairs.
    (6) Psychological operations.
    (7) Counterterrorism.
    (8) Humanitarian assistance.
    (9) Theater search and rescue.
    (10) Such other activities as may be specified by the President or the Secretary of Defense.
  (k) T4Budget Support for Reserve ElementsK.–(1) Before the budget proposal for the special operations command for any fiscal year is submitted to the Secretary of Defense, the commander of the command shall consult with the Secretaries of the military departments concerning funding for reserve component special operations units. If the Secretary of a military department does not concur in the recommended level of funding with respect to any such unit that is under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, the commander shall include with the budget proposal submitted to the Secretary of Defense the views of the Secretary of the military department concerning such funding.
  (2) Before the budget proposal for a military department for any fiscal year is submitted to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of that military department shall consult with the commander of the special operations command concerning funding for special operations forces in the military personnel budget for a reserve component in that military department. If the commander of that command does not concur in the recommended level of funding with respect to reserve component special operations units, the Secretary shall include with the budget proposal submitted to the Secretary of Defense the views of the commander of that command.
