  (a)    (1) There is in the Department of Defense an Institute to be known as the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Institute““), which has the responsibilities, functions, authority, and relationships set forth in this section. The Institute shall be a joint entity of the three military departments, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense.
    (2) The Institute shall consist of a Board of Governors, a Director, two Deputy Directors, and a staff of such professional, technical, and clerical personnel as may be required.
    (3) The Board of Governors shall consist of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, who shall serve as chairman of the Board of Governors, the Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Health, the Surgeons General of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Chief Medical Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and a former Director of the Institute, as designated by the Secretary of Defense, or the designee of any of the foregoing.
    (4) The Director and the Deputy Directors shall be appointed by the Secretary of Defense.
  (b)    (1) In carrying out the provisions of this section, the Institute is authorized to–
      (A) contract with the American Registry of Pathology (established under section 177 of this title) for cooperative enterprises in medical research, consultation, and education between the Institute and the civilian medical profession under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the Board of Governors and the American Registry of Pathology;
      (B) make available at no cost to the American Registry of Pathology such space, facilities, equipment, and support services within the Institute as the Board of Governors deems necessary for the accomplishment of their mutual cooperative enterprises; and
      (C) contract with the American Registry of Pathology for the services of such professional, technical, or clerical personnel as are necessary to fulfill their cooperative enterprises.
    (2) No contract may be entered into under paragraph (1) which obligates the Institute to make outlays in advance of the enactment of budget authority for such outlays.
  (c) The Director is authorized, with the approval of the Board of Governors, to enter into agreements with the American Registry of Pathology for the services at any time of not more than six distinguished pathologists or scientists of demonstrated ability and experience for the purpose of enhancing the activities of the Institute in education, consultation, and research. Such pathologists or scientists may be appointed by the Director to administrative positions within the components or subcomponents of the Institute and may be authorized by the Director to exercise any or all professional duties within the Institute, notwithstanding any other provision of law. The Secretary of Defense, on a case-by-case basis, may waive the limitation on the number of distinguished pathologists or scientists with whom agreements may be entered into under this subsection if the Secretary determines that such waiver is in the best interest of the Department of Defense.
  (d) The Secretary of Defense shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to prescribe the organization, functions, and responsibilities of the Institute.
