  (a) T4Report of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and TechnologyK.–Each year the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology shall transmit to the Secretary of Defense a report on the status of the defense acquisition workforce. Each annual report shall include, for each military department and Defense Agency and the Office of the Secretary of Defense, information on each category of information referred to in subsection (c).
  (b) T4Inclusion of Information in Annual ReportK.–The Secretary of Defense shall include in the annual report of the Secretary to Congress under section 113(c) of this title the information in the report transmitted to the Secretary under subsection (a).
  (c) T4InformationK.–The following information shall be included in the report transmitted to the Secretary under subsection (a) for the period covered by the report (which shall be shown for the Department of Defense as a whole and, with respect to paragraphs (1) through (12), separately for the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Defense Agencies, and Office of the Secretary of Defense):
    (1) The number of acquisition positions specified under the policy established under section 1722(b)(2) of this title as being available, as of December 1 of the period covered by the report, only to members of the armed forces, set forth separately under each criterion established in the policy, together with a discussion of the types of positions that are so specified.
    (2) The total number of persons serving in the Acquisition Corps as of December 1 of the period covered by the report, set forth separately for members of the armed forces and civilian employees, by grade level and by functional specialty.
    (3) The total number of critical acquisition positions held as of December 1 of the period covered by the report, set forth separately for members of the armed forces and civilian employees, by grade level and by other appropriate categories (including by program manager, deputy program manager, and division head positions). For each such category, the report shall specify the number of civilians holding such positions compared to the total number of positions filled.
    (4)      (A) The promotion rate for officers in an acquisition corps considered for promotion from within the promotion zone, compared with the promotion rate for other officers considered for promotion from within the promotion zone in the same pay grade, shown for all officers of the same armed force and for all line (or the equivalent) officers of the same armed force.
      (B) The promotion rate for officers in an acquisition corps considered for promotion from below the promotion zone, compared in the same manner as specified in subparagraph (A).
      (C) If the promotion rates fail to meet the objective of section 1731(b) of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of such failures and of what actions the Secretary has taken or plans to take in reaction to such failures.
    (5) The number of employees who met the requirement of section 1724(a)(3) or section 1724(b) of this title by passing an exam as described in section 1724(a)(3)(C), set forth separately for contracting officers and persons in the GS–1102 occupational series.
    (6) The number of employees to whom the requirements of subsections (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B) of section 1732 of this title did not apply because of the exceptions provided in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1732(c) of this title, set forth separately by type of exception.
    (7) The number of employees certified by an acquisition career program board under section 1732(b)(2)(A)(ii) of this title.
    (8) The number of program managers and deputy program managers who were reassigned after completion of a major milestone occurring closest in time to the date on which the person has served in the position for four years (as required under section 1734(b) of this title), and the proportion of those reassignments to the total number of reassignments of program managers and deputy program managers, set forth separately for program managers and deputy program managers. The Secretary also shall include the average length of assignment served by program managers and deputy program managers so reassigned.
    (9) The number of persons, excluding those reported under paragraph (8), in critical acquisition positions who were reassigned after a period of three years or longer (as required under section 1734(a) of this title), and the proportion of those reassignments to the total number of reassignments of persons, excluding those reported under paragraph (8), in critical acquisition positions.
    (10) The number of times a waiver authority was exercised under section 1724(d), 1732(d), 1734(d), or 1736(c) of this title or any other provision of this chapter (or other provision of law) which permits the waiver of any requirement relating to the acquisition workforce, and in the case of each such authority, the reasons for exercising the authority. The Secretary may present the information provided under this paragraph by category or grouping of types of waivers and reasons.
    (11) The number of persons reviewed for reassignment pursuant to section 1734(e)(2) of this title and the number of persons reassigned as a result of such reviews, together with a discussion of the criteria used to determine reassignments.
    (12) The number of persons participating in each of the programs described in sections 1742 through 1745 of this title, as of December 1 of the period covered by the report.
    (13) The number of persons paid a bonus under section 317 of title 37 and the number of years of service agreed to, for each such bonus, by category.
    (14) Such other information and comparative data as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate to demonstrate the performance of the Department of Defense and the performance of each military department in carrying out this chapter.
  (d) T4Effective DateK.–The requirements of this section shall apply to the years 1991 through 1998.
