  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a Strategic Materials Protection Board.
  (2) The Board shall be composed of representatives of the following:
    (A) The Secretary of Defense, who shall be the chairman of the Board.
    (B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
    (C) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
    (D) The Secretary of the Army.
    (E) The Secretary of the Navy.
    (F) The Secretary of the Air Force.
  (b) T4DutiesK.–In addition to other matters assigned to it by the Secretary of Defense, the Board shall–
    (1) determine the need to provide a long term domestic supply of materials designated as critical to national security to ensure that national defense needs are met;
    (2) analyze the risk associated with each material designated as critical to national security and the effect on national defense that the nonavailability of such material from a domestic source would have;
    (3) recommend a strategy to the President to ensure the domestic availability of materials designated as critical to national security;
    (4) recommend such other strategies to the President as the Board considers appropriate to strengthen the industrial base with respect to materials critical to national security; and
    (5) publish not less frequently than once every two years in the Federal Register recommendations regarding materials critical to national security, including a list of specialty metals, if any, recommended for addition to, or removal from, the definition of ””specialty metal““ for purposes of section 2533b of this title.
  (c) T4MeetingsK.–The Board shall meet as determined necessary by the Secretary of Defense but not less frequently than once every two years to make recommendations regarding materials critical to national security as described in subsection (b)(5).
  (d) T4ReportsK.–After each meeting of the Board, the Board shall prepare and submit to Congress a report containing the results of the meeting and such recommendations as the Board determines appropriate.
