  (a) Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary concerned may pay all or a portion of the charges of an educational institution for the tuition or expenses of a member of the armed forces enrolled in such educational institution for education or training during the member“s off-duty periods.
  (b)    (1) In the case of a commissioned officer on active duty (other than a member of the Ready Reserve), the Secretary concerned may not pay charges under subsection (a) unless the officer agrees to remain on active duty for a period of at least two years after the completion of the training or education for which the charges are paid.
    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned may reduce or waive the active duty service obligation–
      (A) in the case of a commissioned officer who is subject to mandatory separation;
      (B) in the case of a commissioned officer who has completed the period of active duty service for which the officer was ordered to active duty in support of a contingency operation; or
      (C) in other exigent circumstances as determined by the Secretary concerned.
  (c)    (1) Subject to paragraphs (3) and (5), the Secretary concerned may pay the charges of an educational institution for the tuition or expenses described in subsection (a) of a member of the Selected Reserve.
    (2) Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the Secretary concerned may pay the charges of an educational institution for the tuition or expenses described in subsection (a) of a member of the Individual Ready Reserve who has a military occupational specialty designated by the Secretary concerned for purposes of this subsection.
    (3) The Secretary concerned may not pay charges under paragraph (1) for tuition or expenses of an officer of the Selected Reserve unless the officer enters into an agreement to remain a member of the Selected Reserve for at least 4 years after completion of the education or training for which the charges are paid.
    (4) The Secretary concerned may not pay charges under paragraph (2) for tuition or expenses of an officer of the Individual Ready Reserve unless the officer enters into an agreement to remain in the Selected Reserve or Individual Ready Reserve for at least 4 years after completion of the education or training for which the charges are paid.
    (5) The Secretary of a military department may require an enlisted member of the Selected Reserve or Individual Ready Reserve to enter into an agreement to serve for up to 4 years in the Selected Reserve or Individual Ready Reserve, as the case may be, after completion of the education or training for which tuition or expenses are paid under paragraph (1) or (2), as applicable.
  (d)    (1) A member of the armed forces who is entitled to basic educational assistance under chapter 30 of title 38 may use such entitlement for purposes of paying any portion of the charges described in subsection (a) or (c) that are not paid for by the Secretary of the military department concerned under such subsection.
    (2) The use of entitlement under paragraph (1) shall be governed by the provisions of section 3014(b) of title 38.
  (e)    (1) If an officer who enters into an agreement under subsection (b) does not complete the period of active duty specified in the agreement, the officer shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section 303a(e) of title 37.
    (2) If a member of the Ready Reserve who enters into an agreement under subsection (c) does not complete the period of service specified in the agreement, the member shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section 303a(e) of title 37.
  (f) This section shall be administered under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense or, with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Homeland Security.
