  (a) T4Establishment AuthorizedK.–(1) To increase the number of nurses in the armed forces, the Secretary of Defense may enter into an agreement with one or more academic institutions to establish and operate an undergraduate program (in this section referred to as a ””undergraduate nurse training program““) under which participants will earn a bachelor of science degree in nursing and serve as a member of the armed forces.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the participation of members of the other uniformed services in the undergraduate nurse training program if the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services jointly determine the participation of such members in the program will facilitate an increase in the number of nurses in the other uniformed services.
  (b) T4Graduation RatesK.–An undergraduate nurse training program shall have the capacity to graduate 25 students with a bachelor of science degree in nursing in the first class of the program, 50 in the second class, and 100 annually thereafter.
  (c) T4ElementsK.–An undergraduate nurse training program shall have the following elements:
    (1) It shall involve an academic partnership with one or more academic institutions with existing accredited schools of nursing.
    (2) It shall recruit as participants qualified individuals with at least two years of appropriate academic preparation, as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
  (d) T4Location of ProgramsK.–(1) An academic institution selected to operate an undergraduate nurse training program shall establish the program at or near a military installation that has a military treatment facility designated as a medical center with inpatient capability and multiple graduate medical education programs located on the installation or within reasonable proximity to the installation.
  (2) Before approving a location as the site of an undergraduate nurse training program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an assessment to ensure that the establishment of the program at that location will not adversely impact or displace existing nurse training programs, either conducted by the Department of Defense or by a civilian entity, at the location.
  (e) T4Limitation on FacultyK.–An agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall not require members of the armed forces who are nurses to serve as faculty members for an undergraduate nurse training program.
  (f) T4Military Service CommitmentK.–The Secretary of Defense shall encourage members of the armed forces to apply to participate in an undergraduate nurse training program. Graduates of the program shall incur a military service obligation in a regular or reserve component, as determined by the Secretary.
