  (a) T4Detail of Officers To Serve as Commandant or Assistant Commandant of CadetsK.–(1) Upon the request of a senior military college, the Secretary of Defense may detail an officer on the active-duty list to serve as Commandant of Cadets at that college or (in the case of a college with an Assistant Commandant of Cadets) detail an officer on the active-duty list to serve as Assistant Commandant of Cadets at that college (but not both).
  (2) In the case of an officer detailed as Commandant of Cadets, the officer may, upon the request of the college, be assigned from among the Professor of Military Science, the Professor of Naval Science (if any), and the Professor of Aerospace Science (if any) at that college or may be in addition to any other officer detailed to that college in support of the program.
  (3) In the case of an officer detailed as Assistant Commandant of Cadets, the officer may, upon the request of the college, be assigned from among officers otherwise detailed to duty at that college in support of the program or may be in addition to any other officer detailed to that college in support of the program.
  (b) T4Designation of Officers as Tactical OfficersK.–Upon the request of a senior military college, the Secretary of Defense may authorize officers (other than officers covered by subsection (a)) who are detailed to duty as instructors at that college to act simultaneously as tactical officers (with or without compensation) for the Corps of Cadets at that college.
  (c) T4Detail of OfficersK.–The Secretary of a military department shall designate officers for detail to the program at a senior military college in accordance with criteria provided by the college. An officer may not be detailed to a senior military college without the approval of that college.
  (d) T4Termination or Reduction of Program ProhibitedK.–The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments may not take or authorize any action to terminate or reduce a unit of the Senior Reserve Officers“ Training Corps at a senior military college unless the termination or reduction is specifically requested by the college.
  (e) T4Assignment to Active DutyK.–(1) The Secretary of the Army shall ensure that a graduate of a senior military college who desires to serve as a commissioned officer on active duty upon graduation from the college, who is medically and physically qualified for active duty, and who is recommended for such duty by the professor of military science at the college, shall be assigned to active duty. This paragraph shall apply to a member of the program at a senior military college who graduates from the college after March 31, 1997.
  (2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Secretary of the Army from requiring a member of the program who graduates from a senior military college to serve on active duty.
  (f) T4Senior Military CollegesK.–The senior military colleges are the following:
    (1) Texas A&M University.
    (2) Norwich University.
    (3) The Virginia Military Institute.
    (4) The Citadel.
    (5) Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
    (6) North Georgia College and State University.
