  (a) T4In GeneralK.–There is a National Defense University in the Department of Defense.
  (b) T4Component InstitutionsK.–The National Defense University consists of the following institutions:
    (1) The National War College.
    (2) The Industrial College of the Armed Forces.
    (3) The Joint Forces Staff College.
    (4) The Institute for National Strategic Studies.
    (5) The Information Resources Management College.
    (6) Any other educational institution of the Department of Defense that the Secretary considers appropriate and designates as an institution of the university.
       [(c) Repealed. Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title IX, § 904(b)(2)(B), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2353.]
  (d) T4Source of Funds for Professional Development Education OperationsK.–Funding for the professional development education operations of the National Defense University shall be provided from funds made available to the Secretary of Defense from the annual appropriation ””Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide““.
  (e) T4Acceptance of Faculty Research GrantsK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the President of the National Defense University to accept qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor of one of the institutions comprising the University for a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.
  (2) A qualifying research grant under this subsection is a grant that is awarded on a competitive basis by an entity referred to in paragraph (3) for a research project with a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.
  (3) A grant may be accepted under this subsection only from a corporation, fund, foundation, educational institution, or similar entity that is organized and operated primarily for scientific, literary, or educational purposes.
  (4) The Secretary shall establish an account for administering funds received as research grants under this subsection. The President of the University shall use the funds in the account in accordance with applicable provisions of the regulations and the terms and condition of the grants received.
  (5) Subject to such limitations as may be provided in appropriations Acts, appropriations available for the National Defense University may be used to pay expenses incurred by the University in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of qualifying research grants.
  (6) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this subsection.
