  (a)    (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Secretary of Defense may repay–
      (A) any loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.);
      (B) any loan made under part D of such title (the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.);
      (C) any loan made under part E of such title (20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.); or
      (D) any loan incurred for educational purposes made by a lender that is–
        (i) an agency or instrumentality of a State;
        (ii) a financial or credit institution (including an insurance company) that is subject to examination and supervision by an agency of the United States or any State;
        (iii) a pension fund approved by the Secretary for purposes of this section; or
        (iv) a non-profit private entity designated by a State, regulated by such State, and approved by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
           Repayment of any such loan shall be made on the basis of each complete year of service performed by the borrower.
    (2) The Secretary may repay loans described in paragraph (1) in the case of any person for service performed on active duty as a member in an officer program or military specialty specified by the Secretary.
  (b) The portion or amount of a loan that may be repaid under subsection (a) is 33\1/3\ percent or $1,500, whichever is greater, for each year of service.
  (c) If a portion of a loan is repaid under this section for any year, interest on the remainder of such loan shall accrue and be paid in the same manner as is otherwise required.
  (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize refunding any repayment of a loan.
  (e) A person who transfers from service making the person eligible for repayment of loans under this section (as described in subsection (a)(2)) to service making the person eligible for repayment of loans under section 16301 of this title (as described in subsection (a)(2) of that section) during a year shall be eligible to have repaid a portion of such loan determined by giving appropriate fractional credit for each portion of the year so served, in accordance with regulations of the Secretary concerned.
  (f) The Secretary of Defense shall, by regulation, prescribe a schedule for the allocation of funds made available to carry out the provisions of this section and section 16301 of this title during any year for which funds are not sufficient to pay the sum of the amounts eligible for repayment under subsection (a) and section 16301(a) of this title.
