  (a) T4AuthorityK.–(1) The Secretary concerned may pay in accordance with this section the interest and any special allowances that accrue on one or more student loans of an eligible member of the armed forces.
  (2) The Secretary of a military department may exercise the authority under paragraph (1) only if approved by the Secretary of Defense and subject to such requirements, conditions, and restrictions as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
  (b) T4Eligible MembersK.–A member of the armed forces is eligible for the benefit under subsection (a) while the member–
    (1) is serving on active duty in fulfillment of the member“s first enlistment in the armed forces or, in the case of an officer, is serving on active duty and has not completed more than three years of service on active duty;
    (2) is the debtor on one or more unpaid loans described in subsection (c); and
    (3) is not in default on any such loan.
  (c) T4Student LoansK.–The authority to make payments under subsection (a) may be exercised with respect to the following loans:
    (1) A loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.).
    (2) A loan made under part D of such title (20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.).
    (3) A loan made under part E of such title (20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.).
  (d) T4Maximum BenefitK.–The months for which interest and any special allowance may be paid on behalf of a member of the armed forces under this section are any 36 consecutive months during which the member is eligible under subsection (b).
  (e) T4Funds for PaymentsK.–Appropriations available for the pay and allowances of military personnel shall be available for payments under this section.
  (f) T4CoordinationK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense and, with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall consult with the Secretary of Education regarding the administration of the authority under this section.
  (2) The Secretary concerned shall transfer to the Secretary of Education the funds necessary–
    (A) to pay interest and special allowances on student loans under this section (in accordance with sections 428(T3oK), 455(T3lK), and 464(j) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078(T3oK), 1087e(T3lK), and 1087dd(j)); and
    (B) to reimburse the Secretary of Education for any reasonable administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in coordinating the program under this section with the administration of the student loan programs under parts B, D, and E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
  (g) T4Special Allowance DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””special allowance““ means a special allowance that is payable under section 438 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087–1).
