  (a) T4Authority for ProgramK.–The Secretary of Defense may conduct a science, mathematics, and technology education improvement program known as the ””Department of Defense STARBASE Program““. The Secretary shall carry out the program in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments.
  (b) T4PurposeK.–The purpose of the program is to improve knowledge and skills of students in kindergarten through twelfth grade in mathematics, science, and technology.
  (c) T4STARBASE AcademiesK.–(1) The Secretary shall provide for the establishment of at least 25 academies under the program.I11(2) The Secretary of Defense shall establish guidelines, criteria, and a process for the establishment of STARBASE programs in addition to those in operation on October 5, 1999.
  (3)    (A) Except as otherwise provided under subparagraph (B), the Secretary may not support the establishment in any State of more than two academies under the program.
    (B) The Secretary may support the establishment and operation of an academy in a State in excess of two academies in that State if the Secretary expressly waives, in writing, the limitation in subparagraph (A) with respect to that State. In the case of any such waiver, appropriated funds may be used for the establishment and operation of an academy in excess of two in that State only to the extent that appropriated funds are expressly available for that purpose. Any such waiver shall be made under criteria to be prescribed by the Secretary.
  (d) T4Persons Eligible To Participate in ProgramK.–The Secretary shall prescribe standards and procedures for selection of persons for participation in the program.
  (e) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations governing the conduct of the program.
  (f) T4Authority to Accept Financial and Other SupportK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments may accept financial and other support for the program from other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, State governments, local governments, and not-for-profit and other organizations in the private sector.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense shall remain the executive agent to carry out the program regardless of the source of funds for the program or any transfer of jurisdiction over the program within the executive branch.
  (g) T4Annual ReportK.–Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the program under this section. The report shall contain a discussion of the design and conduct of the program and an evaluation of the effectiveness of the program.
  (h) T4State DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””State““ includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.
