  (a)    (1) The Secretary of Defense may, in accordance with the provisions of this subsection, carry out a program for awarding grants to students who have been accepted for enrollment in, or who are enrolled in, an institution of higher education as undergraduate or graduate students in scientific and engineering disciplines critical to the national security functions of the Department of Defense.
    (2) Grant proceeds shall be disbursed on behalf of students awarded grants under this subsection to the institutions of higher education at which the students are enrolled. No grant proceeds shall be disbursed on behalf of a student until the student is enrolled at an institution of higher education.
    (3) The amount of a grant awarded a student under this subsection may not exceed the student“s cost of attendance.
    (4) The amount of a grant awarded a student under this subsection shall not be reduced on the basis of the student“s receipt of other forms of Federal student financial assistance, but shall be taken into account in determining the eligibility of the student for those other forms of Federal student financial assistance.
    (5) The Secretary shall give priority to awarding grants under this subsection in a manner likely to stimulate the interest of women and members of minority groups in pursuing scientific and engineering careers. The Secretary may consider the financial need of applicants in making awards in accordance with such priority.
  (b) The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Education, may establish programs for the purpose of improving the mathematics and scientific knowledge and skills of elementary and secondary school students and faculty members.
  (c) In this section:
    (1) The term ””institution of higher education““ has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
    (2) The term ””cost of attendance““ has the meaning given such term in section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087T3llK).
