  (a) To control and account more effectively for the cost of programs and work performed in the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense may require the establishment of working-capital funds in the Department of Defense to–  
    (1) finance inventories of such supplies as he may designate; and  
    (2) provide working capital for such industrial-type activities, and such commercial-type activities that provide common services within or among departments and agencies of the Department of Defense, as he may designate.  
  (b) Upon the request of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury shall establish working-capital funds established under this section on the books of the Department of the Treasury.  
  (c) Working-capital funds shall be charged, when appropriate, with the cost of–  
    (1) supplies that are procured or otherwise acquired, manufactured, repaired, issued, or used; and  
    (2) services or work performed;  
       including applicable administrative expenses, and be reimbursed from available appropriations or otherwise credited for those costs, including applicable administrative expenses and costs of using equipment.  
  (d) The Secretary of Defense may provide capital for working-capital funds by capitalizing inventories. In addition, such amounts may be appropriated for the purpose of providing capital for working-capital funds as have been specifically authorized by law.  
  (e) Subject to the authority and direction of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of each military department shall allocate responsibility for its functions, powers, and duties to accomplish the most economical and efficient organization and operation of the activities, and the most economical and efficient use of the inventories, for which working-capital funds are authorized by this section.  
  (f) The requisitioning agency may not incur a cost for supplies drawn from inventories, or services or work performed by industrial-type or commercial-type activities for which working-capital funds may be established under this section, that is more than the amount of appropriations or other funds available for those purposes.  
  (g) The appraised value of supplies returned to working-capital funds by a department, activity, or agency may be charged to that fund. The proceeds thereof shall be credited to current applicable appropriations and are available for expenditure for the same purposes that those appropriations are so available. Credits may not be made to appropriations under this subsection as the result of capitalization of inventories under subsection (d).  
  (h) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations governing the operation of activities and use of inventories authorized by this section. The regulations may, if the needs of the Department of Defense require it and it is otherwise authorized by law, authorize supplies to be sold to, or services to be rendered or work performed for, persons outside the Department of Defense. However, supplies available in inventories financed by working capital funds established under this section may be sold to contractors for use in performing contracts with the Department of Defense. Working-capital funds shall be reimbursed for supplies so sold, services so rendered, or work so performed by charges to applicable appropriations or payments received in cash.  
  (i) For provisions relating to sales outside the Department of Defense of manufactured articles and services by a working-capital funded Army industrial facility (including a Department of the Army arsenal) that manufactures large caliber cannons, gun mounts, recoil mechanisms, ammunition, munitions, or components thereof, see section 4543 of this title.  
  (j) The Secretary of a military department may authorize a working capital funded industrial facility of that department to manufacture or remanufacture articles and sell these articles, as well as manufacturing or remanufacturing services provided by such facilities, to persons outside the Department of Defense if–  
    (1) the person purchasing the article or service is fulfilling a Department of Defense contract; and  
    (2) the Department of Defense solicitation for such contract is open to competition between Department of Defense activities and private firms.  
  (k) The Secretary of Defense shall provide that of the total amount of payments received in a fiscal year by funds established under this section for industrial-type activities, not less than 3 percent during fiscal year 1985, not less than 4 percent during fiscal year 1986, and not less than 5 percent during fiscal year 1987 shall be used for the acquisition of capital equipment for such activities.  
