  (a) T4Space Science and Technology StrategyK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a space science and technology strategy and shall review and, as appropriate, revise the strategy annually. Functions of the Secretary under this subsection shall be carried out jointly by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering and the official of the Department of Defense designated as the Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space.
  (2) The strategy under paragraph (1) shall, at a minimum, address the following issues:
    (A) Short-term and long-term goals of the space science and technology programs of the Department of Defense.
    (B) The process for achieving the goals identified under subparagraph (A), including an implementation plan for achieving those goals.
    (C) The process for assessing progress made toward achieving those goals.
  (3) The strategy under paragraph (1) shall be included as part of the annual National Security Space Plan developed pursuant to Department of Defense regulations and shall be provided to Department of Defense components and science and technology entities of the Department of Defense to support the planning, programming, and budgeting processes of the Department.
  (4) The strategy under paragraph (1) shall be developed in consultation with the directors of research laboratories of the Department of Defense, the directors of the other Department of Defense research components, and the heads of other organizations of the Department of Defense as identified by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering and the Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space.
  (5) The strategy shall be available for review by the congressional defense committees.
  (b) T4Required CoordinationK.–In carrying out the space science and technology strategy developed under subsection (a), the directors of the research laboratories of the Department of Defense, the directors of the other Department of Defense research components, and the heads of all other appropriate organizations identified jointly by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering and the Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space shall each–
    (1) identify research projects in support of that strategy that contribute directly and uniquely to the development of space technology; and
    (2) inform the Director of Defense Research and Engineering and the Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space of the planned budget and planned schedule for executing those projects.
  (c) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””research laboratory of the Department of Defense““ means any of the following:
      (A) The Air Force Research Laboratory.
      (B) The Naval Research Laboratory.
      (C) The Office of Naval Research.
      (D) The Army Research Laboratory.
    (2) The term ””other Department of Defense research component““ means either of the following:
      (A) The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
      (B) The National Reconnaissance Office.
