  (a) The cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting may not be used. Subject to the limitation in the preceding sentence, the other provisions of this section, and other applicable provisions of law, the head of an agency, in awarding contracts under this chapter after using procedures other than sealed-bid procedures, may enter into any kind of contract that he considers will promote the best interests of the United States.
  (b) Each contract awarded under this chapter after using procedures other than sealed-bid procedures shall contain a warranty, determined to be suitable by the head of the agency, that the contractor has employed or retained no person or selling agency to solicit or obtain the contract under an understanding or agreement for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee, except a bona fide employee or established commercial or selling agency maintained by him to obtain business. If a contractor breaks such a warranty the United States may annul the contract without liability or may deduct the commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee from the contract price or consideration. This subsection does not apply to a contract that is for an amount not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold or to a contract for the acquisition of commercial items.
     [(c) Repealed. Pub. L. 103–355, title I, § 1021, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3257.]
  (d) The fee for performing a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for experimental, developmental, or research work may not be more than 15 percent of the estimated cost of the contract, not including the fee. The fee for performing a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for architectural or engineering services for a public work or utility plus the cost of those services to the contractor may not be more than 6 percent of the estimated cost of that work or project, not including fees. The fee for performing any other cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract may not be more than 10 percent of the estimated cost of the contract, not including the fee. Determinations under this subsection of the estimated costs of a contract or project shall be made by the head of the agency at the time the contract is made.
  (e) Each cost contract and each cost-plus-a- fixed-fee contract shall provide for notice to the agency by the contractor before the making, under the prime contract, of–
    (1) a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee subcontract; or
    (2) a fixed-price subcontract or purchase order involving more than the greater of (A) the simplified acquisition threshold, or (B) 5 percent of the estimated cost of the prime contract.
  (f) So-called ””truth-in-negotiations““ provisions relating to cost or pricing data to be submitted by certain contractors and subcontractors are provided in section 2306a of this title.
  (g)    (1) The head of an agency may enter into contracts for periods of not more than five years for the following types of services (and items of supply related to such services) for which funds would otherwise be available for obligation only within the fiscal year for which appropriated–
      (A) operation, maintenance, and support of facilities and installations;
      (B) maintenance or modification of aircraft, ships, vehicles, and other highly complex military equipment;
      (C) specialized training necessitating high quality instructor skills (for example, pilot and aircrew members; foreign language training); and
      (D) base services (for example, ground maintenance; in-plane refueling; bus transportation; refuse collection and disposal);
         whenever he finds that–
        (i) there will be a continuing requirement for the services consonant with current plans for the proposed contract period;
        (ii) the furnishing of such services will require a substantial initial investment in plant or equipment, or the incurrence of substantial contingent liabilities for the assembly, training, or transportation of a specialized work force; and
        (iii) the use of such a contract will promote the best interests of the United States by encouraging effective competition and promoting economies in operation.
    (2) In entering into such contracts, the head of the agency shall be guided by the following principles:
      (A) The portion of the cost of any plant or equipment amortized as a cost of contract performance should not exceed the ratio between the period of contract performance and the anticipated useful commercial life of such plant or equipment. Useful commercial life, for this purpose, means the commercial utility of the facilities rather than the physical life thereof, with due consideration given to such factors as location of facilities, specialized nature thereof, and obsolescence.
      (B) Consideration shall be given to the desirability of obtaining an option to renew the contract for a reasonable period not to exceed three years, at prices not to include charges for plant, equipment and other nonrecurring costs, already amortized.
      (C) Consideration shall be given to the desirability of reserving in the agency the right, upon payment of the unamortized portion of the cost of the plant or equipment, to take title thereto under appropriate circumstances.
    (3) In the event funds are not made available for the continuation of such a contract into a subsequent fiscal year, the contract shall be canceled or terminated, and the costs of cancellation or termination may be paid from–
      (A) appropriations originally available for the performance of the contract concerned;
      (B) appropriations currently available for procurement of the type of services concerned, and not otherwise obligated; or
      (C) funds appropriated for those payments.
  (h) Multiyear contracting authority is provided in section 2306b of this title.
