  (a) T4Disclosure of Ownership or Control by a Foreign GovernmentK.–The head of an agency shall require a firm or a subsidiary of a firm that submits a bid or proposal in response to a solicitation issued by the Department of Defense to disclose in that bid or proposal any significant interest in such firm or subsidiary (or, in the case of a subsidiary, in the firm that owns the subsidiary) that is owned or controlled (whether directly or indirectly) by a foreign government or an agent or instrumentality of a foreign government, if such foreign government is the government of a country that the Secretary of State determines under section 6(j)(1)(A) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)(A)) has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
  (b) T4Prohibition on Entering Into Contracts Against the Interests of the United StatesK.–Except as provided in subsection (c), the head of an agency may not enter into a contract with a firm or a subsidiary of a firm if–
    (1) a foreign government owns or controls (whether directly or indirectly) a significant interest in such firm or subsidiary (or, in the case of a subsidiary, in the firm that owns the subsidiary); and
    (2) such foreign government is the government of a country that the Secretary of State determines under section 6(j)(1)(A) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)(A)) has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.
  (c) T4WaiverK.–(1)(A) If the Secretary of Defense determines under paragraph (2) that entering into a contract with a firm or a subsidiary of a firm described in subsection (b) is not inconsistent with the national security objectives of the United States, the head of an agency may enter into a contract with such firm or subsidiary after the date on which such head of an agency submits to Congress a report on the contract.
  (B) A report under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
    (i) The identity of the foreign government concerned.
    (ii) The nature of the contract.
    (iii) The extent of ownership or control of the firm or subsidiary concerned (or, if appropriate in the case of a subsidiary, of the firm that owns the subsidiary) by the foreign government concerned or the agency or instrumentality of such foreign government.
    (iv) The reasons for entering into the contract.
  (C) After the head of an agency submits a report to Congress under subparagraph (A) with respect to a firm or a subsidiary, such head of an agency is not required to submit a report before entering into any subsequent contract with such firm or subsidiary unless the information required to be included in such report under subparagraph (B) has materially changed since the submission of the previous report.
  (2) Upon the request of the head of an agency, the Secretary of Defense shall determine whether entering into a contract with a firm or subsidiary described in subsection (b) is inconsistent with the national security objectives of the United States. In making such a determination, the Secretary of Defense shall consider the following:
    (A) The relationship of the United States with the foreign government concerned.
    (B) The obligations of the United States under international agreements.
    (C) The extent of the ownership or control of the firm or subsidiary (or, if appropriate in the case of a subsidiary, of the firm that owns the subsidiary) by the foreign government or an agent or instrumentality of the foreign government.
    (D) Whether payments made, or information made available, to the firm or subsidiary under the contract could be used for purposes hostile to the interests of the United States.
  (d) T4ApplicabilityK.–(1) This section does not apply to a contract for an amount less than $100,000.
  (2) This section does not apply to the Coast Guard or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
  (e) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Secretary of State, shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section. Such regulations shall include a definition of the term ””significant interest““.
