  (a)    (1) If the President delegates to the Secretary of Defense the authority to carry out section 27(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2767(d)), relating to cooperative projects (as defined in such section), the Secretary may utilize his authority under this title in carrying out contracts or obligations incurred under such section.
    (2) Except as provided in subsection (c), chapter 137 of this title shall apply to such contracts (referred to in paragraph (1)) entered into by the Secretary of Defense. Except to the extent waived under subsection (c) or some other provision of law, all other provisions of law relating to procurement, if otherwise applicable, shall apply to such contracts entered into by the Secretary of Defense.
  (b) When contracting or incurring obligations under section 27(d) of the Arms Export Control Act for cooperative projects, the Secretary of Defense may require subcontracts to be awarded to particular subcontractors in furtherance of the cooperative project.
  (c)    (1) Subject to paragraph (2), when entering into contracts or incurring obligations under section 27(d) of the Arms Export Control Act outside the United States, the Secretary of Defense may waive with respect to any such contract or subcontract the application of any provision of law, other than a provision of the Arms Export Control Act or section 2304 of this title, that specifically–
      (A) prescribe procedures to be followed in the formation of contracts;
      (B) prescribe terms and conditions to be included in contracts;
      (C) prescribe requirements for or preferences to be given to goods grown, produced, or manufactured in the United States or in United States Government-owned facilities or for services to be performed in the United States; or
      (D) prescribe requirements regulating the performance of contracts.
    (2) A waiver may not be made under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary determines that the waiver is necessary to ensure that the cooperative project will significantly further standardization, rationalization, and interoperability.
    (3) The authority of the Secretary to make waivers under this subsection may be delegated only to the Deputy Secretary of Defense or the Acquisition Executive designated for the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
  (d)    (1) The Secretary of Defense shall notify the Congress each time he requires that a prime contract be awarded to a particular prime contractor or that a subcontract to be awarded to a particular subcontractor to comply with a cooperative agreement. The Secretary shall include in each such notice the reason for exercising his authority to designate a particular contractor or subcontractor, as the case may be.
    (2) The Secretary shall also notify the Congress each time he exercises a waiver under subsection (c) and shall include in such notice the particular provision or provisions of law that were waived.
    (3) A report under this subsection shall be required only to the extent that the information required by this subsection has not been provided in a report made by the President under section 27(e) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2767(e)).
  (e)    (1) In carrying out a cooperative project under section 27 of the Arms Export Control Act, the Secretary of Defense may agree that a participant (other than the United States) may make a contract for requirements of the United States under the project if the Secretary determines that such a contract will significantly further standardization, rationalization, and interoperability. Except to the extent waived under this section or under any other provision of law, the Secretary shall ensure that such contract will be made on a competitive basis and that United States sources will not be precluded from competing under the contract.
    (2) If a participant (other than the United States) in a cooperative project makes a contract on behalf of such project to meet the requirements of the United States, the contract may permit the contracting party to follow its own procedures relating to contracting.
  (f) In carrying out a cooperative project, the Secretary of Defense may also agree to the disposal of property that is jointly acquired by the members of the project without regard to any laws of the United States applicable to the disposal of property owned by the United States. Disposal of such property may include a transfer of the interest of the United States in such property to one of the other governments participating in the cooperative agreement or the sale of such property. Payment for the transfer or sale of any interest of the United States in any such property shall be made in accordance with the terms of the cooperative agreement.
  (g) Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing–
    (1) the Secretary of Defense to waive any of the financial management responsibilities administered by the Secretary of the Treasury; or
    (2) to waive the cargo preference laws of the United States, including section 2631 of this title and section 901(b) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241(b)).
