  (a) T4Authority To Accept ContributionsK.–The Secretary of Defense may accept contributions from any nation because of or in support of the relocation of elements of the armed forces from or to any location within that nation. Such contributions may be accepted in dollars or in the currency of the host nation. Any such contribution shall be placed in an account established for such purpose and shall remain available until expended for the purposes specified in subsection (b). The Secretary shall establish a separate account for such purpose for each country from which such contributions are accepted.
  (b) T4Use of ContributionsK.–The Secretary may use a contribution accepted under subsection (a) only for payment of costs incurred in connection with the relocation concerning which the contribution was made. Those costs include the following:
    (1) Design and construction services, including development and review of statements of work, master plans and designs, acquisition of construction, and supervision and administration of contracts relating thereto.
    (2) Transportation and movement services, including packing, unpacking, storage, and transportation.
    (3) Communications services, including installation and deinstallation of communications equipment, transmission of messages and data, and rental of transmission capability.
    (4) Supply and administration, including acquisition of expendable office supplies, rental of office space, budgeting and accounting services, auditing services, secretarial services, and translation services.
    (5) Personnel costs, including salary, allowances and overhead of employees whether full-time or part-time, temporary or permanent (except for military personnel), and travel and temporary duty costs.
    (6) All other clearly identifiable expenses directly related to relocation.
  (c) T4Method of ContributionK.–Contributions may be accepted in any of the following forms:
    (1) Irrevocable letter of credit issued by a financial institution acceptable to the Treasurer of the United States.
    (2) Drawing rights on a commercial bank account established and funded by the host nation, which account is blocked such that funds deposited cannot be withdrawn except by or with the approval of the United States.
    (3) Cash, which shall be deposited in a separate trust fund in the United States Treasury pending expenditure and which shall accrue interest in accordance with section 9702 of title 31.
  (d) T4Annual Report to CongressK.–Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report specifying–
    (1) the amount of the contributions accepted by the Secretary during the preceding fiscal year under subsection (a) and the purposes for which the contributions were made; and
    (2) the amount of the contributions expended by the Secretary during the preceding fiscal year and the purposes for which the contributions were expended.
