  (a) T4Authority To Accept ContributionsK.–The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Secretary of State, may accept cash contributions from any country or regional organization designated for purposes of this section by the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, for the purposes specified in subsection (c).
  (b) T4AccountingK.–Contributions accepted under subsection (a) which are not related to security assistance may be accepted, managed, and expended in dollars or in the currency of the host nation (or, in the case of a contribution from a regional organization, in the currency in which the contribution was provided). Any such contribution shall be placed in an account established for such purpose and shall remain available until expended for the purposes specified in subsection (c). The Secretary of Defense shall establish a separate account for such purpose for each country or regional organization from which such contributions are accepted under subsection (a).
  (c) T4Availability of ContributionsK.–Contributions accepted under subsection (a) shall be available only for the payment of the following costs:
    (1) Compensation for local national employees of the Department of Defense.
    (2) Military construction projects of the Department of Defense.
    (3) Supplies and services of the Department of Defense.
  (d) T4Authorization of Military ConstructionK.–Contributions placed in an account established under subsection (b) may be used–
    (1) by the Secretary of Defense to carry out a military construction project that is consistent with the purposes for which the contributions were made and is not otherwise authorized by law; or
    (2) by the Secretary of a military department, with the approval of the Secretary of Defense, to carry out such a project.
  (e) T4Notice and Wait RequirementsK.–(1) When a decision is made to carry out a military construction project under subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional committees specified in subsection (g) a report containing–
    (A) an explanation of the need for the project;
    (B) the then current estimate of the cost of the project; and
    (C) a justification for carrying out the project under that subsection.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department may not commence a military construction project under subsection (d) until the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report under paragraph (1) regarding the project.
  (3)    (A) A military construction project under subsection (d) may be carried out without regard to the requirement in paragraph (1) and the limitation in paragraph (2) if the project is necessary to support the armed forces in the country or region in which the project is carried out by reason of a declaration of war, or a declaration by the President of a national emergency pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), that is in force at the time of the commencement of the project.
    (B) When a decision is made to carry out a military construction project under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional committees specified in subsection (g)–
      (i) a notice of the decision; and
      (ii) a statement of the current estimated cost of the project, including the cost of any real property transaction in connection with the project.
  (f) T4ReportsK.–Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report specifying separately for each country and regional organization from which contributions have been accepted by the Secretary under subsection (a)–
    (1) the amount of the contributions accepted by the Secretary during the preceding fiscal year under subsection (a) and the purposes for which the contributions were made; and
    (2) the amount of the contributions expended by the Secretary during the preceding fiscal year and the purposes for which the contributions were expended.
  (g) T4Congressional CommitteesK.–The congressional committees referred to in subsection (e) are–
    (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
    (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
