  (a) T4Authority To Engage in CooperativeK R&D T4ProjectsK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense may enter into a memorandum of understanding (or other formal agreement) with one or more countries or organizations referred to in paragraph (2) for the purpose of conducting cooperative research and development projects on defense equipment and munitions.
  (2) The countries and organizations with which the Secretary may enter into a memorandum of agreement (or other formal agreement) under paragraph (1) are as follows:
    (A) The North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
    (B) A NATO organization.
    (C) A member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
    (D) A major non-NATO ally.
    (E) Any other friendly foreign country.
  (3) If such a memorandum of understanding (or other formal agreement) is with a country referred to in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2), such memorandum (or agreement) may go into effect only after the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services and on Foreign Relations of the Senate and to the Committees on Armed Services and on International Relations of the House of Representatives a report with respect to the proposed memorandum (or agreement) and a period of 30 days has passed after the report has been submitted.
  (b) T4Requirement That Projects Improve Conventional Defense CapabilitiesK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a memorandum of understanding (or other formal agreement) to conduct a cooperative research and development project under this section unless the Secretary determines that the proposed project will improve, through the application of emerging technology, the conventional defense capabilities of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or the common conventional defense capabilities of the United States and a country or organization referred to in subsection (a)(2).
  (2) The authority of the Secretary to make a determination under paragraph (1) may only be delegated to the Deputy Secretary of Defense and to one other official of the Department of Defense.
  (c) T4Cost SharingK.–Each cooperative research and development project entered into under this section shall require sharing of the costs of the project (including the costs of claims) between the participants on an equitable basis.
  (d) T4Restrictions on Procurement of Equipment and ServicesK.–(1) In order to assure substantial participation on the part of countries and organizations referred to in subsection (a)(2) in cooperative research and development projects, funds made available for such projects may not be used to procure equipment or services from any foreign government, foreign research organization, or other foreign entity.
  (2) A country or organization referred to in subsection (a)(2) may not use any military or economic assistance grant, loan, or other funds provided by the United States for the purpose of making the contribution of that country or organization to a cooperative research and development program entered into with the United States under this section.
  (e) T4Cooperative Opportunities DocumentK.–(1) In order to ensure that opportunities to conduct cooperative research and development projects are considered at an early point during the formal development review process of the Department of Defense in connection with any planned project of the Department, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall prepare a cooperative opportunities document before the first milestone or decision point with respect to that project for review by the Defense Acquisition Board at formal meetings of the Board.
  (2) A cooperative opportunities document referred to in paragraph (1) shall include the following:
    (A) A statement indicating whether or not a project similar to the one under consideration by the Department of Defense is in development or production by any country or organization referred to in subsection (a)(2) or NATO organizations.
    (B) If a project similar to the one under consideration by the Department of Defense is in development or production by one or more countries and organizations referred to in subsection (a)(2), an assessment by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics as to whether that project could satisfy, or could be modified in scope so as to satisfy, the military requirements of the project of the United States under consideration by the Department of Defense.
    (C) An assessment of the advantages and disadvantages with regard to program timing, developmental and life cycle costs, technology sharing, and Rationalization, Standardization, and Interoperability (RSI) of seeking to structure a cooperative development program with one or more countries and organizations referred to in subsection (a)(2) or NATO organizations.
    (D) The recommendation of the Under Secretary as to whether the Department of Defense should explore the feasibility and desirability of a cooperative development program with one or more countries and organizations referred to in subsection (a)(2) or NATO organizations.
       [(f) Repealed. Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, § 1031(a)(17), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1597.]
  (g) T4Side-by-Side TestingK.–(1) It is the sense of Congress–
    (A) that the Secretary of Defense should test conventional defense equipment, munitions, and technologies manufactured and developed by countries referred to in subsection (a)(2) to determine the ability of such equipment, munitions, and technologies to satisfy United States military requirements or to correct operational deficiencies; and
    (B) that while the testing of nondevelopmental items and items in the late state of the development process are preferred, the testing of equipment, munitions, and technologies may be conducted to determine procurement alternatives.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense may acquire equipment, munitions, and technologies of the type described in paragraph (1) for the purpose of conducting the testing described in that paragraph.
  (3) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall notify the congressional defense committees of the intent to obligate funds made available to carry out this subsection not less than 7 days before such funds are obligated.
  (h) T4Secretary To Encourage Similar ProgramsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall encourage member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, major non-NATO allies, and other friendly foreign countries to establish programs similar to the one provided for in this section.
    (i) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
      (1) The term ””cooperative research and development project““ means a project involving joint participation by the United States and one or more countries and organizations referred to in subsection (a)(2) under a memorandum of understanding (or other formal agreement) to carry out a joint research and development program–
        (A) to develop new conventional defense equipment and munitions; or
        (B) to modify existing military equipment to meet United States military requirements.
      (2) The term ””major non-NATO ally““ means a country (other than a member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) that is designated as a major non-NATO ally for purposes of this section by the Secretary of Defense with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
      (3) The term ””NATO organization““ means any North Atlantic Treaty Organization subsidiary body referred to in section 2350(2) of this title and any other organization of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
