  (a) T4Annual ReportK.–The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress an annual report on research, development, test, and evaluation conducted by the Department of Defense during the preceding fiscal year for the purposes of biological defense. The report shall be submitted in both classified and unclassified form and shall be submitted each year in conjunction with the submission of the budget to Congress for the next fiscal year.
  (b) T4Contents of ReportK.–Each report under this section shall provide the following information:
    (1) A description of each biological or infectious agent or toxin that was used in, or that was the subject of, research, development, test, and evaluation conducted for the purposes of biological defense during the fiscal year covered by the report and not previously listed in publications of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).
    (2) A description of the biological properties of each such agent.
    (3) A statement of the location of each biological defense research facility and the amount spent by the Department of Defense during the fiscal year covered by the report at each such facility for research, development, test, and evaluation for biological defense research.
    (4) A statement of the biosafety level used at each such facility in conducting that research, development, test, and evaluation.
    (5) A statement that documentation of annual coordination with local health, fire, and police officials for the provision of emergency support services has been included in the facility safety plan for each biological defense research facility.
  (c) T4Types of Research CoveredK.–This section applies to all research, development, test, and evaluation activities conducted by the Department of Defense for the purpose of biological defense.
  (d) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””biosafety level““ means the applicable biosafety level described in the publication entitled ””Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories““ (CDC–NIH, 1984).
    (2) The term ””biological defense research facility““ means a location at which research, development, test, and evaluation for purposes of biological defense involving any biological or infectious agent or toxin (whether or not listed in a CDC publication) is conducted.
