  (a)    (1) Each contract for the procurement of goods or services in excess of $100,000 entered into by the Department of Defense shall include a provision under which the contractor agrees not to provide compensation to a person if the acceptance of such compensation by such person would violate section 2397b(a)(1) of this title.
    (2) Such a contract shall also provide that if the contractor knowingly violates a contract provision required by paragraph (1) the contractor shall pay to the United States, as liquidated damages under the contract, an amount equal to the greater of–
      (A) $100,000; or
      (B) three times the amount of the compensation paid by the contractor to the person in violation of such contract provision.
  (b)    (1)      (A) Any contractor that was awarded one or more contracts by the Department of Defense during the preceding fiscal year in an aggregate amount of at least $10,000,000 that is subject during a calendar year to a contract provision described in subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, not later than April 1 of the next year, a written report covering the preceding calendar year. Each such report shall list the name of each person (together with other information adequate for the Government to identify the person) who–
        (i) is a former officer or employee of the Department of Defense or a former or retired member of the armed forces; and
        (ii) during the preceding calendar year was provided compensation by that contractor, if such compensation was provided within two years after such officer, employee, or member left service in the Department of Defense.
      (B) In the case of each person named in a report submitted under subparagraph (A), the report shall–
        (i) identify the agency in which the person was employed or served on active duty during the last two years of the person“s service with the Department of Defense;
        (ii) state the person“s job title and identify each major defense system, if any, on which the person performed any work with the Department of Defense during the last two years of the person“s service with the Department;
        (iii) contain a complete description of any work that the person is performing on behalf of the contractor; and
        (iv) identify each major defense system on which the person has performed any work on behalf of the contractor.
    (2) A person who knowingly fails to file a report required by paragraph (1) shall be subject to an administrative penalty, not to exceed $10,000, imposed by the Secretary of Defense after an opportunity for an agency hearing on the record pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. The determinations of the Secretary shall be included in such record. The determinations of the Secretary shall be subject to judicial review under chapter 7 of title 5.
    (3) The Secretary of Defense shall review each report under paragraph (1) for the purposes of (A) assessing the accuracy and completeness of the report, and (B) identifying possible violations of section 2397b(a)(1) of this title or of a contract provision required by subsection (a). The Secretary shall report any such possible violation to the Attorney General.
    (4) The Secretary shall make reports submitted under this subsection available to any Member of Congress upon request.
  (d) Subsection (g) of section 2397b of this title, and the definitions prescribed in subsection (f) of such section, apply to this section.
  (e) This section does not apply to contracts for the purchase of commercial items (as defined in section 4(12) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(12))).
