  (a) In this section:
    (1) The term ””contract““ means a contract (including the net amount of modifications to, and the exercise of options under, the contract) that is in an amount in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, as in effect at the time that the contract is awarded. The term does not include a contract for the purchase of commercial items (as defined in section 4(12) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(12))).
    (2) The term ””defense contractor““ means a person that provides services, supplies, or both (including construction) to the Department of Defense under a contract directly with the Department.
    (3) The term ””served““, when used with ””otherwise““, includes the representation of a defense contractor–
      (A) at a hearing, trial, appeal, or other action in which the United States was a party and that involved services, supplies, or both (including construction) that were provided to, or to be provided to, the Department by the contractor; and
      (B) in a transaction with the Department that involved services, supplies, or both (including construction) that were provided to, or to be provided to, the Department by the contractor.
  (b)    (1) This subsection applies to–
      (A) a former or retired officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who (i) has at least 10 years of active service, and (ii) held for any period during that service a grade above captain or, if the Navy, above lieutenant; and
      (B) a former civilian official or employee (including a consultant or part-time employee) of the Department of Defense whose pay rate (at any time during the three-year period before the end of the last service of the person with the Department) was at least equal to the minimum rate at the time for GS–13.
    (2)      (A) If a person to whom this subsection applies (i) was employed by, or served as a consultant or otherwise to, a defense contractor at any time during a year at an annual pay rate of at least $25,000 and the defense contractor was awarded contracts by the Department of Defense during the preceding year that totaled at least $10,000,000, and (ii) within the two-year period ending on the day before the person began the employment or consulting relationship, the person served on active duty or was a civilian employee for the Department, the person shall file a report with the Secretary of Defense in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe. The person shall file the report not later than 90 days after the date on which the person began the employment or consulting relationship.
      (B) The person shall file an additional report each time, during the two-year period beginning on the date the active duty or civilian employment with the Department terminated, that the person“s job with the defense contractor significantly changes or the person commences an employment or consulting relationship with another defense contractor under the conditions described in the first sentence. A person required to file an additional report under this subparagraph shall file the report within 30 days after the date of the change or the date the employment or consulting relationship commences, as the case may be.
    (3) The report shall contain the following information:
      (A) The name and address of the person reporting.
      (B) The name and address of the defense contractor that employed the person or for whom the person served as a consultant or otherwise.
      (C) The title of the position of the person when serving the defense contractor.
      (D) A description of the duties and work performed or to be performed by the person for the defense contractor, and a description of any similar duties or work performed for which the person had at least partial responsibility as a civilian official or employee of the Department of Defense or a member of the armed forces during the two-year period referred to in paragraph (2)(A)(ii).
      (E) The military grade of the person while on active duty or the gross pay rate while performing civilian service for the Department.
      (F) A description of the duties and the work performed by the person while on active duty or performing civilian service for the Department during the two-year period referred to in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) and a description of the type of work performed and the extent to which such work was performed by the person for the defense contractor that has employed the person or has retained the person as a consultant.
      (G) The date the active duty or civilian service by the person for the Department ended and the date the service with the defense contractor began and, if applicable, ended.
      (H) Other pertinent information the Secretary requires.
        (I) A statement describing any disqualification action taken by the person during the two-year period referred to in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) with respect to any involvement in a matter concerning the defense contractor.
  (c)    (1) A person who (A) holds civilian office or employment (including employment as a consultant or part-time employee) in the Department at any time during a year at a pay rate at least equal to the minimum rate for GS–13, and (B) within the two-year period before the effective date of employment with the Department was employed by, or served as a consultant or otherwise to, a defense contractor at any time during a year at an annual pay rate of at least $25,000 and the contractor was awarded contracts by the Department during that year that total at least $10,000,000, shall file a report with the Secretary in the way and at the time prescribed by the Secretary.
    (2) The report shall contain the following information:
      (A) The name and address of the person reporting.
      (B) The title of the position of the person with the Department.
      (C) A description of the duties and work performed by the person with the Department and a description of any similar duties or work for which the person had at least partial responsibility as an employee or consultant of the defense contractor during the two-year period referred to in paragraph (1)(B).
      (D) The name and address of the defense contractor that employed the person or for whom the person served as a consultant or otherwise.
      (E) The title of the position of the person when serving the defense contractor.
      (F) A description of the duties and work performed by the person for the defense contractor and a description of the type of work and the extent to which such work was performed by the person in connection with contracts of the defense contractor with the Department during the two-year period referred to in paragraph (1)(B).
      (G) The date the service of the person with the defense contractor ended and the date the service with the Department began.
      (H) Other pertinent information the Secretary requires.
  (d) The Secretary shall maintain a file containing the information filed under this section. The file may be inspected by members of the public at any time during regular work hours.
  (e) Before April 1 of each year, the Secretary shall report to Congress the names of persons who have filed reports for the preceding year under this section. The names shall be listed, by groups, under the names of the appropriate defense contractors. The Secretary may include for each name appropriate additional information.
  (f)    (1) A person who fails to comply with the filing requirements of this section shall be liable to the United States for an administrative penalty in the amount of $10,000, or in such lesser amount as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense, considering all the relevant circumstances.
    (2) The Secretary shall determine whether a person has failed to file a report required by this section and shall determine the amount of the penalty under paragraph (1). The Secretary shall make the determinations on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing as provided in subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5. The determinations of the Secretary shall be subject to judicial review under chapter 7 of such title.
