  (a) T4Waiver AuthorityK.–The Secretary of Defense may, for any purchase of a defined fuel source, waive the application of any provision of law prescribing procedures to be followed in the formation of contracts, prescribing terms and conditions to be included in contracts, or regulating the performance of contracts if the Secretary determines–
    (1) that market conditions for the defined fuel source have adversely affected (or will in the near future adversely affect) the acquisition of that defined fuel source by the Department of Defense; and
    (2) the waiver will expedite or facilitate the acquisition of that defined fuel source for Government needs.
  (b) T4Scope of WaiverK.–A waiver under subsection (a) may be made with respect to a particular contract or with respect to classes of contracts. Such a waiver that is applicable to a contract for the purchase of a defined fuel source may also be made applicable to a subcontract under that contract.
  (c) T4Exchange AuthorityK.–The Secretary of Defense may acquire a defined fuel source or services related to a defined fuel source by exchange of a defined fuel source or services related to a defined fuel source.
  (d) T4Authority To SellK.–The Secretary of Defense may sell a defined fuel source of the Department of Defense if the Secretary determines that the sale would be in the public interest. The proceeds of such a sale shall be credited to appropriations of the Department of Defense for the acquisition of a defined fuel source or services related to a defined fuel source. Amounts so credited shall be available for obligation for the same period as the appropriations to which the amounts are credited.
  (e) T4Petroleum DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””petroleum““ means natural or synthetic crude, blends of natural or synthetic crude, and products refined or derived from natural or synthetic crude or from such blends.
  (f) T4Defined Fuel SourcesK.–In this section, the term ””defined fuel source““ means any of the following:
    (1) Petroleum.
    (2) Natural gas.
    (3) Coal.
    (4) Coke.
