  (a) In this section:
    (1) The term ””program acquisition unit cost““, with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means the amount equal to (A) the total cost for development and procurement of, and system-specific military construction for, the acquisition program, divided by (B) the number of fully-configured end items to be produced for the acquisition program.
    (2) The term ””procurement unit cost““, with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means the amount equal to (A) the total of all funds programmed to be available for obligation for procurement for the program, divided by (B) the number of fully-configured end items to be procured.
    (3) The term ””major contract““, with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means each of the six largest prime, associate, or Government-furnished equipment contracts under the program that is in excess of $40,000,000 and that is not a firm, fixed price contract.
    (4) The term ””full life-cycle cost““, with respect to a major defense acquisition program, means all costs of development, procurement, military construction, and operations and support, without regard to funding source or management control.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress at the end of each fiscal-year quarter a report on current major defense acquisition programs. Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), each such report shall include a status report on each defense acquisition program that at the end of such quarter is a major defense acquisition program. Reports under this section shall be known as Selected Acquisition Reports.
    (2) A status report on a major defense acquisition program need not be included in the Selected Acquisition Report for the second, third, or fourth quarter of a fiscal year if such a report was included in a previous Selected Acquisition Report for that fiscal year and during the period since that report there has been–
      (A) less than a 15 percent increase in program acquisition unit cost and current procurement unit cost; and
      (B) less than a six-month delay in any program schedule milestone shown in the Selected Acquisition Report.
    (3)      (A) The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement for submission of Selected Acquisition Reports for a program for a fiscal year if–
        (i) the program has not entered engineering and manufacturing development;
        (ii) a reasonable cost estimate has not been established for such program; and
        (iii) the system configuration for such program is not well defined.
      (B) The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a written notification of each waiver under subparagraph (A) for a program for a fiscal year not later than 60 days before the President submits the budget to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 in that fiscal year.
  (c)    (1) Each Selected Acquisition Report for the first quarter for a fiscal year shall include–
      (A) the same information, in detailed and summarized form, as is provided in reports submitted under section 2431 of this title;
      (B) the current program acquisition unit cost for each major defense acquisition program included in the report and the history of that cost from the date the program was first included in a Selected Acquisition Report to the end of the quarter for which the current report is submitted; and
      (C) such other information as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
    (2) Each Selected Acquisition Report for the first quarter of a fiscal year shall be designed to provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives the information such Committees need to perform their oversight functions. Whenever the Secretary of Defense proposes to make changes in the content of a Selected Acquisition Report, the Secretary shall submit a notice of the proposed changes to such committees. The changes shall be considered approved by the Secretary, and may be incorporated into the report, only after the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the notice is received by those committees.
    (3) In addition to the material required by paragraphs (1) and (2), each Selected Acquisition Report for the first quarter of a fiscal year shall include the following:
      (A) A full life-cycle cost analysis for each major defense acquisition program included in the report that is in the engineering and manufacturing development stage or has completed that stage. The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that this subparagraph is implemented in a uniform manner, to the extent practicable, throughout the Department of Defense.
      (B) If the system that is included in that major defense acquisition program has an antecedent system, a full life-cycle cost analysis for that system.
    (4) Selected Acquisition Reports for the first quarter of a fiscal year shall be known as comprehensive annual Selected Acquisition Reports.
  (d)    (1) Each Selected Acquisition Report for the second, third, and fourth quarters of a fiscal year shall include–
      (A) with respect to each major defense acquisition program that was included in the most recent comprehensive annual Selected Acquisition Report, the information described in subsection (e); and
      (B) with respect to each major defense acquisition program that was not included in the most recent comprehensive annual Selected Acquisition Report, the information described in subsection (c).
    (2) Selected Acquisition Reports for the second, third, and fourth quarters of a fiscal year shall be known as Quarterly Selected Acquisition Reports.
  (e) Information to be included under this subsection in a Quarterly Selected Acquisition Report with respect to a major defense acquisition program is as follows:
    (1) The quantity of items to be purchased under the program.
    (2) The program acquisition cost.
    (3) The program acquisition unit cost.
    (4) The current procurement cost for the program.
    (5) The current procurement unit cost for the program.
    (6) The reasons for any change in program acquisition cost, program acquisition unit cost, procurement cost, or procurement unit cost or in program schedule from the previous Selected Acquisition Report.
    (7) The major contracts under the program and the reasons for any cost or schedule variances under those contracts since the last Selected Acquisition Report.
    (8) The completion status of the program (A) expressed as the percentage that the number of years for which funds have been appropriated for the program is of the number of years for which it is planned that funds will be appropriated for the program, and (B) expressed as the percentage that the amount of funds that have been appropriated for the program is of the total amount of funds which it is planned will be appropriated for the program.
    (9) Program highlights since the last Selected Acquisition Report.
  (f) Each comprehensive annual Selected Acquisition Report shall be submitted within 60 days after the date on which the President transmits the Budget to Congress for the following fiscal year, and each Quarterly Selected Acquisition Report shall be submitted within 45 days after the end of the fiscal-year quarter.
  (g) The requirements of this section with respect to a major defense acquisition program shall cease to apply after 90 percent of the items to be delivered to the United States under the program (shown as the total quantity of items to be purchased under the program in the most recent Selected Acquisition Report) have been delivered or 90 percent of planned expenditures under the program have been made.
  (h)    (1) Total program reporting under this section shall apply to a major defense acquisition program when funds have been appropriated for such and the Secretary of Defense has decided to proceed to engineering and manufacturing development of such program. Reporting may be limited to the development program as provided in paragraph (2) before a decision is made by the Secretary of Defense to proceed to engineering and manufacturing development if the Secretary notifies the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives of the intention to submit a limited report under this subsection not less than 15 days before a report is due under this section.
    (2) A limited report under this subsection shall include the following:
      (A) The same information, in detail and summarized form, as is provided in reports submitted under subsections (b)(1) and (b)(3) of section 2431 of this title.
      (B) Reasons for any change in the development cost and schedule.
      (C) The major contracts under the development program and the reasons for any cost or schedule variances under those contracts since the last Selected Acquisition Report.
      (D) The completion status of the development program expressed–
        (i) as the percentage that the number of years for which funds have been appropriated for the development program is of the number of years for which it is planned that funds will be appropriated for the program; and
        (ii) as the percentage that the amount of funds that have been appropriated for the development program is of the total amount of funds which it is planned will be appropriated for the program.
      (E) Program highlights since the last Selected Acquisition Report.
      (F) Other information as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
    (3) The submission requirements for a limited report under this subsection shall be the same as for quarterly Selected Acquisition Reports for total program reporting.
