  (a) T4Workforce Review DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””workforce review““, with respect to a function of the Department of Defense performed by Department of Defense civilian employees, means a review conducted under Office of Management and Budget Circular A–76 (or any successor administrative regulation or policy), the Strategic Sourcing Program Plan of Action (or any successor Department of Defense guidance or directive), or any other authority to determine whether the function–
    (1) should be performed by a workforce composed of Department of Defense civilian employees or by a private sector workforce; or
    (2) should be reorganized or otherwise reengineered to improve the effeciency\1\N or effectiveness of the performance of the function, with a resulting decrease in the number of Department of Defense civilian employees performing the function.
  (b) T4System for Monitoring PerformanceK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a system for monitoring the performance, including the cost of performance, of each function of the Department of Defense that, after the date of the enactment of this section, is the subject of a workforce review.
  (2) The monitoring system shall be designed to compare the following:
    (A) The costs to perform a function before the workforce review to the costs actually incurred to perform the function after implementing the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering actions recommended by the workforce review.
    (B) The anticipated savings to the actual savings, if any, resulting from conversion, reorganization, or reengineering actions undertaken in response to the workforce review.
  (3) The monitoring of a function shall continue under this section for at least five years after the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering of the function.
  (c) T4Waiver for Certain Workforce ReviewsK.–Subsection (b) shall not apply to a workforce review that would result in a manpower reduction affecting fewer than 50 Department of Defense civilian employees.
  (d) T4Annual ReportK.–Not later than February 1 of each fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the monitoring performed under the system established under subsection (b). For each function subject to monitoring during the previous fiscal year, the report shall indicate the following:
    (1) The cost of the workforce review.
    (2) The cost of performing the function before the workforce review compared to the costs incurred after implementing the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering actions recommended by the workforce review.
    (3) The actual savings derived from the implementation of the recommendations of the workforce review, if any, compared to the anticipated savings that were to result from the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering actions.
  (e) T4Consideration in Preparation of Future-Years Defense ProgramK.–In preparing the future-years defense program under section 221 of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall, for the fiscal years covered by the program, estimate and take into account the costs to be incurred and the savings to be derived from the performance of functions by workforces selected in workforce reviews. The Secretary shall consider the results of the monitoring under this section in making the estimates.
