  (a) T4Report on Public-Private Competition ResultsK.–(1) Upon the completion of a public-private competition under section 2461 of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the public-private competition required by subsection (a) of such section.
  (2) Each report under this subsection shall include the following:
    (A) The date on which the public-private competition was commenced.
    (B) The number of Department of Defense civilian employees who were performing the function when the public-private competition was commenced and the number of such employees whose employment was or will be terminated or otherwise affected by converting to performance of the function by a contractor or by implementation of the most efficient organization of the function.
    (C) The Secretary“s certification that the Government“s calculation of the cost of performance of the function by Department of Defense civilian employees is based on an estimate of the most cost effective manner for performance of the function by Department of Defense civilian employees that meets the needs of the Department with respect to factors other than cost, including quality and reliability.
    (D) The Secretary“s certification that the public-private competition did not include any predetermined personnel constraint or limitation in terms of man years, end strength, full-time equivalent positions, or maximum number of employees.
    (E) The Secretary“s certification that the entire public-private competition is available for examination.
    (F) In the case of a function performed at a Center of Industrial and Technical Excellence designated under section 2474(a) of this title or an Army ammunition plant, a description of the effect that the manner of performance of the function, and administration of the resulting contract if any, will have on the overhead costs of the center or ammunition plant, as the case may be.
    (G) A schedule for implementing the results of the public-private competition.
  (3)    (A) No decision made on the basis of a public-private competition under section 2461 of this title may be implemented until after the submission of a report under paragraph (1).
    (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), in the case of function performed at a Center of Industrial and Technical Excellence designated under section 2474(a) of this title or an Army ammunition plant, the conversion of the function to performance by a contractor may not begin until at least 60 days after the submission of a report under paragraph (1).
  (b) T4Annual ReportK.–Not later than June 30 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a written report, which shall include the following:
    (1) An estimate of the percentage of functions (other than functions that are inherently governmental) that Department of Defense civilian employees will perform and an estimate of the percentage of such functions that contractors will perform during the fiscal year during which the report is submitted.
    (2) The results of public-private competitions conducted under section 2461 of this title that were completed during the preceding fiscal year, including each of the following:
      (A) The number of such competitions completed during such fiscal year and the number of Department of Defense civilian employees performing functions for which such a competition was conducted.
      (B) The percentage of such competitions that resulted in the continued performance of a function by Department of Defense civilian employees.
      (C) The percentage of such competitions that resulted in the conversion of a function to performance by a contractor.
      (D) The percentage of the Department of Defense civilian employees identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) whose positions will be converted to performance by contractors or eliminated as a result of implementing the results of such competitions.
    (3) The results of monitoring the performance of Department functions under section 2461a of this title, including for each function subject to monitoring, each of the following:
      (A) The cost of the public-private competition conducted under section 2461 of this title.
      (B) The cost of performing the function before such competition compared to the costs incurred after implementing the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering actions recommended pursuant to the competition.
      (C) The actual savings derived from the implementation of the recommendations made pursuant to such competition, if any, compared to the anticipated savings that were to result from the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering actions.
