  (a) T4Requirement To Limit Procurements To Certain SourcesK.–In order to preserve the small arms production industrial base, the Secretary of Defense shall require that any procurement of property or services described in subsection (b) for the Department of Defense be made only from a firm in the small arms production industrial base, unless the Secretary determines, with regard to a particular procurement, that such requirement is not necessary to preserve the small arms production industrial base.
  (b) T4Covered Property and ServicesK.–Subject to subsection (d), subsection (a) applies to the following:
    (1) Critical repair parts for small arms, consisting only of barrels, receivers, and bolts.
    (2) Modifications of such parts to improve small arms used by the armed forces.
  (c) T4Small Arms Production Industrial BaseK.–(1) Subject to paragraph (2), in this section, the term ””small arms production industrial base““ means the firms comprising the small arms production industrial base, as described in the plan entitled ””Preservation of Critical Elements of the Small Arms Industrial Base““, dated January 8, 1994, that was prepared by an independent assessment panel of the Army Science Board.
  (2) After March 31, 2010, the Secretary of Defense may eliminate, modify, or add to the firms included in the small arms production industrial base, as defined in paragraph (1), as he determines appropriate to best ensure the competitive development, production, and maintenance of small arms for the Department of Defense.
  (d) T4ApplicabilityK.–This section applies only to procurements of covered property and services involving the following small arms:
    (1) M16 series rifle.
    (2) MK19 grenade machine gun.
    (3) M4 series carbine.
    (4) M240 series machine gun.
    (5) M249 squad automatic weapon.
  (e) T4Submission of Certified Cost or Pricing DataK.–If a procurement under subsection (a) is a procurement of a commercial item, the Secretary may, notwithstanding section 2306a(b)(1)(B) of this title, require the submission of certified cost or pricing data under section 2306a(a) of this title.
