  (a) T4Private OperationK.–Private persons may operate commissary stores under such regulations as the Secretary of Defense may approve. A contract with a private person for the operation of any commissary store may not require or permit the contractor to carry out functions for the procurement of products to be sold in the store or to engage in functions relating to the overall management of a commissary system or the management of any such store. Such functions shall be carried out by personnel of the Department of Defense under regulations approved by the Secretary of Defense.
  (b) T4Contracts With Other Agencies and InstrumentalitiesK.–(1) The Defense Commissary Agency, and any other agency of the Department of Defense that supports the operation of the commissary system, may enter into a contract or other agreement with another element of the Department of Defense or with another Federal department, agency, or instrumentality to provide or obtain services beneficial to the efficient management and operation of the commissary system. However, the Defense Commissary Agency may not pay for any such service provided by the United States Transportation Command any amount that exceeds the price at which the service could be procured through full and open competition, as such term is defined in section 4(6) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(6)).
  (2) A commissary store operated by a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense shall be operated in accordance with section 2484 of this title. Subject to such section, the Secretary of Defense may authorize a transfer of goods, supplies, and facilities of, and funds appropriated for, the Defense Commissary Agency or any other agency of the Department of Defense that supports the operation of the commissary system to a nonappropriated fund instrumentality for the operation of a commissary store.
  (c) T4Governing BoardK.–(1) Notwithstanding section 192(d) of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a governing board for the commissary system to provide advice to the Secretary regarding the prudent operation of the commissary system and to assist in the overall supervision of the Defense Commissary Agency. The Secretary may authorize the board to have such supervisory authority as the Secretary considers appropriate to permit the board to carry out its responsibilities.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense shall determine the membership of the governing board, which shall include, at a minimum, appropriate representatives from each military department.
  (3) The governing board shall be accountable only to the Secretary of Defense and to the civilian officer of the Department of Defense who is assigned the responsibility for the overall supervision of the Defense Commissary Agency pursuant to section 192(a) of this title. The Director of the Defense Commissary Agency shall be accountable to and report to the board.
