  (a) T4In GeneralK.–Commissary stores are similar to commercial grocery stores and may sell merchandise similar to that sold in commercial grocery stores.
  (b) T4Authorized Commissary Merchandise CategoriesK.–Merchandise sold in, at, or by commissary stores may include items only in the following categories:
    (1) Health and beauty aids.
    (2) Meat and poultry.
    (3) Fish and seafood.
    (4) Produce.
    (5) Food and non-food grocery items.
    (6) Bakery goods.
    (7) Dairy products.
    (8) Tobacco products.
    (9) Delicatessen items.
    (10) Frozen foods.
    (11) Magazines and other periodicals.
    (12) Such other merchandise categories as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe, except that the Secretary shall notify Congress of any addition of, or change in, a merchandise category under this paragraph.
  (c) T4Uniform Sales Price Surcharge or AdjustmentK.–An adjustment of or surcharge on sales prices in commissary stores under subsection (d) or section 2685(a) of this title or for any other purpose shall be applied as a uniform percentage of the sales price of all merchandise sold in, at, or by commissary stores. Effective on November 18, 1997, the uniform percentage shall be equal to five percent and may not be changed except by a law enacted after such date.
  (d) T4Sales Price EstablishmentK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish the sales price of each item of merchandise sold in, at, or by commissary stores at the level that will recoup the actual product cost of the item (consistent with this section and section 2685 of this title).
  (2) Any change in the pricing policies for merchandise sold in, at, or by commissary stores shall not take effect until the Secretary of Defense submits written notice of the proposed change to Congress and a period of 90 days of continuous session of Congress expires following the date on which notice was received. For purposes of this paragraph, the continuity of a session of Congress is broken only by an adjournment of the Congress sine die, and the days on which either House is not in session because of an adjournment or recess of more than three days to a day certain are excluded in a computation of such 90-day period.
  (3) The sales price of merchandise and services sold in, at, or by commissary stores shall be adjusted to cover the following:
    (A) The cost of first destination commercial transportation of the merchandise in the United States to the place of sale.
    (B) The actual or estimated cost of shrinkage, spoilage, and pilferage of merchandise under the control of commissary stores.
  (e) T4Special Rule for Brand-Name Commercial ItemsK.–The Secretary of Defense may not use the exception provided in section 2304(c)(5) of this title regarding the procurement of a brand-name commercial item for resale in, at, or by commissary stores unless the commercial item is regularly sold outside of commissary stores under the same brand name as the name by which the commercial item will be sold in, at, or by commissary stores. In determining whether a brand name commercial item is regularly sold outside of commissary stores, the Secretary shall consider only sales of the item on a regional or national basis by commercial grocery or other retail operations consisting of multiple stores.
  (f) T4Special Rules for Certain MerchandiseK.–Notwithstanding the general requirement that merchandise sold in, at, or by commissary stores be commissary store inventory, the Secretary of Defense may authorize the sale of tobacco products as noncommissary store inventory. Subsections (c) and (d) shall not apply to the pricing of such merchandise items.
  (g) T4Collection of Dishonored ChecksK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense may impose a charge for the collection of a check accepted at a commissary store that is not honored by the financial institution on which the check is drawn. The imposition and amounts of charges shall be consistent with practices of commercial grocery stores regarding dishonored checks.
  (2)    (A) The following persons are liable to the United States for the amount of a check referred to in paragraph (1) that is returned unpaid to the United States, together with any charge imposed under that paragraph:
      (i) The person who presented the check.
      (ii) Any person whose status and relationship to the person who presented the check provide the basis for that person“s eligibility to make purchases at a commissary store.
    (B) Any amount for which a person is liable under subparagraph (A) may be collected by deducting and withholding such amount from any amounts payable to that person by the United States.
  (3) Amounts collected as charges imposed under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the commissary trust revolving fund.
  (4) Appropriated funds may be used to pay any costs incurred in the collection of checks and charges referred to in paragraph (1). An appropriation account charged a cost under the preceding sentence shall be reimbursed the amount of that cost out of funds in the commissary trust revolving fund.
  (5) In this subsection, the term ””commissary trust revolving fund““ means the trust revolving fund maintained by the Department of Defense for surcharge collections and proceeds of sales of commissary stores.
