  (a) T4Prohibition of Sale or RentalK.–The Secretary of Defense may not permit the sale or rental of sexually explicit material on property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense.
  (b) T4Prohibition of Officially Provided Sexually Explicit MaterialK.–A member of the armed forces or a civilian officer or employee of the Department of Defense acting in an official capacity may not provide for sale, remuneration, or rental sexually explicit material to another person.
  (c) T4Resale Activities Review BoardK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a nine-member board to make recommendations to the Secretary regarding whether material sold or rented, or proposed for sale or rental, on property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense is barred from sale or rental by subsection (a).
  (2)    (A) The Secretary of Defense shall appoint six members of the board to broadly represent the interests of the patron base served by the defense commissary system and the exchange system. The Secretary shall appoint one of the members to serve as the chairman of the board. At least one member appointed under this subparagraph shall be a person with experience managing or advocating for military family programs and who is also an eligible patron of the defense commissary system and the exchange system.
    (B) The Secretary of each of the military departments shall appoint one member of the board.
    (C) A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
  (3) The Secretary of Defense may detail persons to serve as staff for the board. At a minimum, the Secretary shall ensure that the board is assisted at meetings by military resale and legal advisors.
  (4) The recommendations made by the board under paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public. The Secretary of Defense shall publicize the availability of such recommendations by such means as the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (5) Members of the board shall be allowed travel expense, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the board.
  (d) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to implement this section.
  (e) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””sexually explicit material““ means an audio recording, a film or video recording, or a periodical with visual depictions, produced in any medium, the dominant theme of which depicts or describes nudity, including sexual or excretory activities or organs, in a lascivious way.
    (2) The term ””property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense““ includes commissaries, all facilities operated by the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the Navy Exchange Service Command, the Navy Resale and Services Support Office, Marine Corps exchanges, and ships“ stores.
