  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the National Defense Technology and Industrial Base Council, shall establish a program for analysis of the national technology and industrial base.
  (2) As determined by the Secretary of Defense, the program shall be administered by one of the following:
    (A) An existing federally funded research and development center.
    (B) A consortium of existing federally funded research and development centers and other nonprofit entities.
    (C) A private sector entity (other than a federally funded research and development center).
    (D) The National Defense University.
  (3) A contract may be awarded under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (2) only through the use of competitive procedures.
  (4) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that there is appropriate coordination between the program and the Critical Technologies Institute.
  (b) T4Supervision of ProgramK.–The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the program through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition. In carrying out the program, the Under Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Labor.
  (c) T4FunctionsK.–The functions of the program shall include, with respect to the national technology and industrial base, the following:
    (1) The assembly of timely and authoritative information.
    (2) Initiation of studies and analyses.
    (3) Provision of technical support and assistance to–
      (A) the National Defense Technology and Industrial Base Council in the preparation of the periodic assessments required by section 2505 of this title and the periodic plans required by section 2506 of this title;
      (B) the defense acquisition university structure and its elements; and
      (C) other departments and agencies of the Federal Government in accordance with guidance established by the Council.
    (4) Dissemination, through the National Technical Information Service of the Department of Commerce, of unclassified information and assessments for further dissemination within the Federal Government and to the private sector.
