  (a) T4In GeneralK.–The National Defense Technology and Industrial Base Council shall prepare annually through fiscal year 1997 and biennially thereafter a multiyear plan for ensuring, to the maximum extent practicable, that the policies and programs of the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, and other departments and agencies of the Federal Government are planned, coordinated, funded, and implemented in a manner designed to attain each of the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title. In preparing each plan, the Council shall take into account the most recent national technology and industrial base assessment prepared pursuant to section 2505 of this title.
  (b) T4Program Guidance To Be Included in PlanK.–Each plan under subsection (a) shall also provide specific guidance (including goals, milestones, and priorities) for the following:
    (1) National defense programs and policies of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy that are necessary to ensure the continued viability of each technology and industrial base sector that is necessary to support the objectives stated in section 2501(a) of this title.
    (2) National defense programs and policies of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy that are necessary in each such sector–
      (A) to reduce dependence on foreign sources that could create a military vulnerability; and
      (B) to provide for alternative sources in the event that the foreign sources become unavailable.
    (3) The composition and management of the Defense Industrial Reserve under section 2535 of this title.
    (4) National defense programs and policies of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy relating to manufacturing technology.
    (5) Development of each defense critical technology.
    (6) Ensuring that financial policies of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy (for national security programs) are designed to meet the policies set forth in section 2501 of this title.
    (7) Encouragement of the effective use of commercial products and processes by the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy for national security programs.
    (8) For each plan through fiscal year 1997, national defense programs and policies of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy relating to the transition from economic dependence on defense expenditures of those technology and industrial base sectors and businesses that are at least partially dependent economically on defense expenditures.
    (9) Enhancement of the skills and capabilities of the work force in the national technology and industrial base in support of the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title.
    (10) Enhancement of the effectiveness of the major defense acquisition program regulations prescribed pursuant to section 2430(b) of this title.
  (c) T4Long-Range PlansK.–Each plan through fiscal year 1997 shall include the following:
    (1) A long-range plan for technology development and use of model demonstration defense facilities for environmental restoration and waste management.
    (2) A long-range plan to develop advanced technology to carry out transportation projects that further the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title.
    (3) A long-range national security energy technology plan to further the national security objectives of section 2501(a) of this title.
    (4) A long-range national defense communications networking plan to further the national security objectives of section 2501(a) of this title.
  (d) T4Acquisition Reform GuidanceK.–Each plan shall include–
    (1) recommendations for legislation that the Council considers appropriate for eliminating any adverse effect of Federal law on the capability of the national technology and industrial base to further the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title; and
    (2) specific guidance to ensure that maximum use is made of authority to waive regulations or conduct test programs in pursuit of such objectives.
  (e) T4IssuanceK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall provide the plan to the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the other elements of the Department of Defense not later than the date on which the Secretary provides those officials with the guidance required by section 113(g)(1) of this title.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress, not later than March 31 of each year through 1997 and every odd-numbered year thereafter–
    (A) the plan prepared under this section, including any changes necessary to reflect the budget submitted by the President during that year under section 1105 of title 31; and
    (B) the national technology and industrial base periodic assessment prepared pursuant to section 2505 of this title that pertains to such plan and budget.
  (3) The plan and assessment shall be submitted to Congress in classified and unclassified forms. Proprietary information that may be withheld from disclosure under section 552 of title 5 shall be provided only in the classified version.
