  (a) T4Establishment of PartnershipsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a program to further the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title by providing for the establishment of cooperative arrangements (hereinafter in this section referred to as ””partnerships““) between the Department of Defense and one or more eligible firms and nonprofit research corporations referred to in section 2511(b) of this title. A partnership may also include, as determined appropriate by the Secretary of Defense, a Federal laboratory or laboratories, institutions of higher education, agencies of State governments, and other entities that participate in the partnership by supporting the activities conducted by such firms or corporations under this section.
  (b) T4Assistance AuthorizedK.–(1) The Secretary may make grants, enter into contracts, and enter into cooperative agreements and other transactions pursuant to section 2371 of this title in order to establish the partnerships.
  (2) The Secretary may not enter into a partnership under this section for a period longer than 5 years.
  (3) The Secretary may provide a partnership with technical and other assistance to facilitate the achievement of the purposes of this section, subject to the limitations in subsection (c).
  (c) T4Financial Commitment of Non-Federal Government ParticipantsK.–(1) The Secretary shall ensure that the amount of funds provided by the Secretary under a partnership does not exceed the maximum authorized percentage of the total cost of partnership activities.
  (2) The maximum authorized percentage of funding referred to in paragraph (1) for each year of a partnership is as follows:
    (A) 50 percent in the first year.
    (B) 40 percent in the second year.
    (C) 30 percent in the each of the third, fourth, and fifth years.
  (3)    (A) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to provide for consideration of in-kind contributions by non-Federal Government participants in a partnership for the purpose of determining the share of the partnership costs that has been or is being undertaken by such participants.
    (B) In such regulations, the Secretary may authorize a participant that is a small business concern to use funds received under the Small Business Innovation Research Program or the Small Business Technology Transfer Program to help pay the costs of partnership activities. Any such funds so used may be considered in calculating the amount of the financial commitment undertaken by the non-Federal Government participants unless the Secretary determines that the small business concern has not made a significant equity percentage contribution in the partnership from non-Federal sources.
    (C) The Secretary shall consider a partnership proposal submitted by a small business concern without regard to the ability of the small business concern to immediately meet its share of the anticipated partnership costs. Upon the selection of a partnership proposal submitted by a small business concern, the small business concern shall have a period of not less than 120 days in which to arrange to meet its financial commitment requirements under the partnership from sources other than a person of a foreign country. If the Secretary determines upon the expiration of that period that the small business concern will be unable to meet its share of the anticipated partnership costs, the Secretary shall revoke the selection of the partnership proposal submitted by the small business concern.
  (d) T4Selection ProcessK.–Competitive procedures shall be used in the establishment of partnerships.
  (e) T4Selection CriteriaK.–The criteria for the selection of a proposed partnership for establishment under this section shall include the following:
    (1) The extent to which the program proposed to be conducted by the partnership advances and enhances the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title.
    (2) The technical excellence of the program proposed to be conducted by the partnership.
    (3) The qualifications of the personnel proposed to participate in the partnership“s research activities.
    (4) An assessment that timely private sector investment in activities to achieve the goals and objectives of the proposed partnership other than through the partnership.
    (5) The potential effectiveness of the partnership in the further development and application of each technology proposed to be developed by the partnership for the industrial and technology base.
    (6) The extent of the financial commitment of the eligible firms to the proposed partnership.
    (7) The likelihood that the partnership will develop technologies that are sufficiently viable in the commercial sector so that such technologies will be available to meet the future reconstitution requirements and other needs of the Department of Defense described in the most recent national technology and industrial base plan prepared under section 2506 of this title.
    (8) The likelihood that, within five years after the establishment of the partnership (or a lesser period established by the Secretary), Federal Government funding of the partnership will not be necessary.
    (9) The extent to which the partnership does not unnecessarily duplicate programs undertaken by other Federal agencies.
    (10) Such other criteria as the Secretary prescribes.
