  (a) T4Use of ProgramsK.–The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Energy, shall promote the improvement of the subtier defense industry through use of manufacturing extension programs. Manufacturing extension programs so used shall include programs carried out by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to section 25 and section 26 of the Act of March 3, 1901 (15 U.S.C. 278k and 278T3lK) and section 5121(b) of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 278T3lK note).
  (b) T4Program RequirementsK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall, in order to further the national security objectives set forth in section 2501(a) of this title, establish a program–
    (A) to support existing manufacturing extension programs of regions, States, local governments, and private, nonprofit organizations;
    (B) to promote the development of a broad range of such programs that will benefit both the national security and the economic prosperity of the United States; and
    (C) to increase the involvement of appropriate segments of the private sector in activities that improve the manufacturing quality, productivity, and performance of United States-based small manufacturing firms.
  (2) In awarding financial assistance under the program, the Secretary, on the basis of merit pursuant to a competitive selection process, shall select manufacturing extension programs that demonstrate evidence of the following:
    (A) Comprehensive and high quality services, including staff with significant experience in industrial manufacturing.
    (B) Significant involvement by, and support from, private industry.
    (C) The potential for assisting a significant number of United States-based small manufacturing firms with a limited expenditure of Federal funds.
  (3)    (A) The Secretary shall ensure that the amount of financial assistance furnished by the Federal Government to a manufacturing extension program under this subsection may not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the program. Financial assistance shall be provided to a recipient program for a period of five years unless such financial assistance is earlier terminated for good cause. Recipients of such financial assistance shall be required to report to the Secretary annually beginning one year after the date that such financial assistance is initiated. Such report shall include a description of the progress of the recipient program in meeting the objectives set out in paragraph (1).
    (B) The Secretary of Defense shall require a major evaluation of each manufacturing extension program receiving financial assistance under this subsection. The evaluation shall be conducted during the third year that such program receives such financial assistance. If, on the basis of such evaluation, the Secretary finds that the financial assistance to the extension program should be terminated for good cause, the Secretary shall provide sufficient financial assistance to terminate that program. The amount of that assistance may not exceed the amount that would otherwise have been provided for continuing the financial assistance to the recipient program through the end of the fourth year.
    (C) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) do not prohibit a recipient program from reapplying for financial assistance under this subsection upon the expiration or termination of the furnishing of financial assistance under this subsection. The application for additional financial assistance shall be subject to the requirements and procedures set out in this subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as initial applications for financial assistance under this subsection.
    (D) The Secretary may prescribe regulations to provide for consideration of in-kind contributions by non-Federal Government participants in a manufacturing extension program for the purpose of calculating the share of the costs that has been or is being undertaken by such participants. In such regulations, the Secretary may authorize a participant that is a small business concern to use funds received under the Small Business Innovation Research Program or the Small Business Technology Transfer Program to help pay the costs of the program. Any such funds so used may be considered in calculating the amount of the financial commitment undertaken by the non-Federal Government participants unless the Secretary determines that the small business concern has not made a significant equity percentage contribution in the program from non-Federal sources.
  (4) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Commerce shall enter into an agreement for carrying out the program established pursuant to this subsection. The agreement shall include procedures to ensure that the program is fully coordinated with related manufacturing programs of the Department of Commerce.
