  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary of Defense shall establish a Manufacturing Technology Program to further the national security objectives of section 2501(a) of this title. The Secretary shall use the joint planning process of the directors of the Department of Defense laboratories in establishing the program. The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology shall administer the program.
  (b) T4Purpose of ProgramK.–The Secretary of Defense shall use the program–
    (1) to provide centralized guidance and direction (including goals, milestones, and priorities) to the military departments and the Defense Agencies on all matters relating to manufacturing technology;
    (2) to direct the development and implementation of Department of Defense plans, programs, projects, activities, and policies that promote the development and application of advanced technologies to manufacturing processes, tools, and equipment;
    (3) to improve the manufacturing quality, productivity, technology, and practices of businesses and workers providing goods and services to the Department of Defense;
    (4) to promote dual-use manufacturing processes;
    (5) to disseminate information concerning improved manufacturing improvement concepts, including information on such matters as best manufacturing practices, product data exchange specifications, computer-aided acquisition and logistics support, and rapid acquisition of manufactured parts;
    (6) to sustain and enhance the skills and capabilities of the manufacturing work force;
    (7) to promote high-performance work systems (with development and dissemination of production technologies that build upon the skills and capabilities of the work force), high levels of worker education and training; and
    (8) to ensure appropriate coordination between the manufacturing technology programs and industrial preparedness programs of the Department of Defense and similar programs undertaken by other departments and agencies of the Federal Government or by the private sector.
  (c) T4ExecutionK.–(1) The Secretary may carry out projects under the program through the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies.
  (2) In order to promote increased dissemination and use of manufacturing technology throughout the national defense technology and industrial base, the Secretary shall seek, to the maximum extent practicable, the participation of manufacturers of manufacturing equipment in the projects under the program.
  (d) T4Competition and Cost SharingK.–(1)(A) In accordance with the policy stated in section 2374 of this title, competitive procedures shall be used for awarding all grants and entering into all contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions under the program.
  (B) For each grant awarded and each contract, cooperative agreement, or other transaction entered into on a cost-share basis under the program, the ratio of contract recipient cost to Government cost shall be determined by competitive procedures. For a project for which the Government receives an offer from only one offeror, the contracting officer shall negotiate the ratio of contract recipient cost to Government cost that represents the best value to the Government.
  (2)    (A) A grant may not be awarded under the program, and a contract, cooperative agreement, or other transaction may not be entered into under the program, on any basis other than a cost-sharing basis unless the Secretary of Defense determines that the grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or other transaction, as the case may be, is for a program that–
      (i) is not likely to have any immediate and direct commercial application;
      (ii) is of sufficiently high risk to discourage cost sharing by non-Federal Government sources; or
      (iii) will be carried out by an institution of higher education.
    (B) For any grant awarded or contract, cooperative agreement, or other transaction entered into on a basis other than a cost-sharing basis because of a determination made under subparagraph (A), the transaction file for the project concerned must document the rationale for the determination.
    (C) The Secretary of Defense may delegate the authority to make determinations under subparagraph (A) only to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology or a service acquisition executive, as appropriate.
  (3) As a goal, at least 25 percent of the funds available for the program each fiscal year should be used for awarding grants and entering into contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions on a cost-share basis under which the ratio of recipient cost to Government cost is two to one. The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments and upon recommendation of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, shall establish annual objectives to meet such goal.
  (e) T4Five-Year PlanK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prepare a five-year plan for the program which establishes–
    (A) the overall manufacturing technology goals, milestones, priorities, and investment strategy for the program; and
    (B) for each of the five fiscal years covered by the plan, the objectives of, and funding for the program by, each military department and each Defense Agency participating in the program.
  (2) The plan shall include the following:
    (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of the program.
    (B) An assessment of the extent to which the costs of projects are being shared by the following:
      (i) Commercial enterprises in the private sector.
      (ii) Department of Defense program offices, including weapon system program offices.
      (iii) Departments and agencies of the Federal Government outside the Department of Defense.
      (iv) Institutions of higher education.
      (v) Other institutions not operated for profit.
      (vi) Other sources.
  (3) The plan shall be updated annually and shall be included in the budget justification documents submitted in support of the budget of the Department of Defense for a fiscal year (as included in the budget of the President submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31).
