  (a) In determining under section 8302 of title 41 whether application of such Act is inconsistent with the public interest, the Secretary of Defense shall consider the following:
    (1) The bids or proposals of small business firms in the United States which have offered to furnish American goods.
    (2) The bids or proposals of all other firms in the United States which have offered to furnish American goods.
    (3) The United States balance of payments.
    (4) The cost of shipping goods which are other than American goods.
    (5) Any duty, tariff, or surcharge which may enter into the cost of using goods which are other than American goods.
    (6) A need to ensure that the Department of Defense has access to advanced, state-of-the-art commercial technology.
    (7) The need to protect the national technology and industrial base, to preserve and enhance the national technology employment base, and to provide for a defense mobilization base.
    (8) A need to ensure that application of different rules of origin for United States end items and foreign end items does not result in an award to a firm other than a firm providing a product produced in the United States.
    (9) Any need–
      (A) to maintain the same source of supply for spare and replacement parts for an end item that qualifies as an American good; or
      (B) to maintain the same source of supply for spare and replacement parts in order not to impair integration of the military and commercial industrial base.
    (10) The national security interests of the United States.
  (b) In this section, the term ””goods which are other than American goods““ means–
    (1) an end product that is not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States; or
    (2) an end product that is manufactured in the United States but which includes components mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States the aggregate cost of which exceeds the aggregate cost of the components of such end product that are mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States.
