  (a) T4RequirementK.–Except as provided in subsections (b) through (j), funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of Defense may not be used for procurement of–
    (1) the following types of end items, or components thereof, containing a specialty metal not melted or produced in the United States: aircraft, missile and space systems, ships, tank and automotive items, weapon systems, or ammunition; or
    (2) a specialty metal that is not melted or produced in the United States and that is to be purchased directly by the Department of Defense or a prime contractor of the Department.
  (b) T4Availability ExceptionK.–(1) Subsection (a) does not apply to the extent that the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that compliant specialty metal of satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity, and in the required form, cannot be procured as and when needed. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ””compliant specialty metal““ means specialty metal melted or produced in the United States.
  (2) This subsection applies to prime contracts and subcontracts at any tier under such contracts.
  (c) T4Exception for Certain ProcurementsK.–Subsection (a) does not apply to the following:
    (1) Procurements outside the United States in support of combat operations or in support of contingency operations.
    (2) Procurements for which the use of procedures other than competitive procedures has been approved on the basis of section 2304(c)(2) of this title, relating to unusual and compelling urgency of need.
  (d) T4Exception Relating to Agreements With Foreign GovernmentsK.–Subsection (a)(1) does not preclude the procurement of a specialty metal if–
    (1) the procurement is necessary–
      (A) to comply with agreements with foreign governments requiring the United States to purchase supplies from foreign sources for the purposes of offsetting sales made by the United States Government or United States firms under approved programs serving defense requirements; or
      (B) in furtherance of agreements with foreign governments in which both such governments agree to remove barriers to purchases of supplies produced in the other country or services performed by sources of the other country; and
    (2) any such agreement with a foreign government complies, where applicable, with the requirements of section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776) and with section 2457 of this title.
  (e) T4Exception for Commissaries, Exchanges, and Other Nonappropriated Fund InstrumentalitiesK.–Subsection (a) does not apply to items purchased for resale purposes in commissaries, exchanges, and nonappropriated fund instrumentalities operated by the Department of Defense.
  (f) T4Exception for Small PurchasesK.–Subsection (a) does not apply to procurements in amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold referred to in section 2304(g) of this title.
  (g) T4Exception for Purchases of Electronic ComponentsK.–Subsection (a) does not apply to procurements of commercially available electronic components whose specialty metal content is de minimis in value compared to the overall value of the lowest level electronic component produced that contains such specialty metal.
  (h) T4Applicability to Procurements of Commercial ItemsK.–This section applies to procurements of commercial items notwithstanding section 34 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 430).
    (i) T4Specialty Metal DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””specialty metal““ means any of the following:
      (1) Steel–
        (A) with a maximum alloy content exceeding one or more of the following limits: manganese, 1.65 percent; silicon, 0.60 percent; or copper, 0.60 percent; or
        (B) containing more than 0.25 percent of any of the following elements: aluminum, chromium, cobalt, columbium, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, tungsten, or vanadium.
      (2) Metal alloys consisting of nickel, iron-nickel, and cobalt base alloys containing a total of other alloying metals (except iron) in excess of 10 percent.
      (3) Titanium and titanium alloys.
      (4) Zirconium and zirconium base alloys.
    (j) T4Additional DefinitionsK.–In this section:
      (1) The term ””United States““ includes possessions of the United States.
      (2) The term ””component““ has the meaning provided in section 4 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403).
