  (a) T4Collection of Information on Foreign-Controlled ContractorsK.–The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy shall each collect and maintain a data base containing a list of, and other pertinent information on, all contractors with the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy, respectively, that are controlled by foreign persons. The data base shall contain information on such contractors for 1988 and thereafter in all cases where they are awarded contracts exceeding $10,000,000 in any single year by the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy.
  (b) T4Annual Report to CongressK.–The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the Congress, by March 31 of each year, beginning in 1994, a report containing a summary and analysis of the information collected under subsection (a) for the year covered by the report. The report shall include an analysis of accumulated foreign ownership of United States firms engaged in the development of defense critical technologies.
  (c) T4Technology Risk Assessment RequirementK.–(1) If the Secretary of Defense is acting as a designee of the President under section 721(a) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2170(a)) and if the Secretary determines that a proposed or pending merger, acquisition, or takeover may involve a firm engaged in the development of a defense critical technology or is otherwise important to the defense industrial and technology base, then the Secretary shall require the appropriate entity or entities from the list set forth in paragraph (2) to conduct an assessment of the risk of diversion of defense critical technology posed by such proposed or pending action.
  (2) The entities referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
    (A) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
    (B) The Army Foreign Technology Science Center.
    (C) The Naval Maritime Intelligence Center.
    (D) The Air Force Foreign Aerospace Science and Technology Center.
