  (a) T4Assistance AuthorizedK.–The Secretary of Defense may, with respect to the ceremonies relating to the inauguration of a President, provide the assistance referred to in subsection (b) to–
    (1) the Presidential Inaugural Committee; and
    (2) the congressional Joint Inaugural Committee.
  (b) T4AssistanceK.–Assistance that may be provided under subsection (a) is the following:
    (1) Planning and carrying out activities relating to security and safety.
    (2) Planning and carrying out ceremonial activities.
    (3) Loan of property.
    (4) Any other assistance that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (c) T4ReimbursementK.–(1) The Presidential Inaugural Committee shall reimburse the Secretary for any costs incurred in connection with the provision to the committee of assistance referred to in subsection (b)(4).
  (2) Costs reimbursed under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the appropriations from which the costs were paid. The amount credited to an appropriation shall be proportionate to the amount of the costs charged to that appropriation.
  (d) T4Loaned PropertyK.–With respect to property loaned for a presidential inauguration under subsection (b)(3), the Presidential Inaugural Committee shall–
    (1) return that property within nine days after the date of the ceremony inaugurating the President;
    (2) give good and sufficient bond for the return in good order and condition of that property;
    (3) indemnify the United States for any loss of, or damage to, that property; and
    (4) defray any expense incurred for the delivery, return, rehabilitation, replacement, or operation of that property.
  (e) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””Presidential Inaugural Committee““ means the committee referred to in section 501 of title 36 that is appointed with respect to the inauguration of a President-elect and Vice President-elect.
    (2) The term ””congressional Joint Inaugural Committee““ means the joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives referred to in section 507 of title 36 that is appointed with respect to the inauguration of a President-elect and Vice President-elect.
