  (a) T4Authorized AssistanceK.–To the extent provided in defense authorization Acts, funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for a fiscal year for humanitarian assistance shall be used for the purpose of providing transportation of humanitarian relief and for other humanitarian purposes worldwide.
  (b) T4Authority To Transfer FundsK.–To the extent provided in defense authorization Acts for a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the Secretary of State funds appropriated for the purposes of this section to provide for–
    (1) the payment of administrative costs incurred in providing the transportation described in subsection (a); and
    (2) the purchase or other acquisition of transportation assets for the distribution of humanitarian relief supplies in the country of destination.
  (c) T4Transportation of Humanitarian ReliefK.–(1) Transportation of humanitarian relief provided with funds appropriated for the purposes of this section shall be provided under the direction of the Secretary of State.
  (2) Such transportation shall be provided by the most economical commercial or military means available, unless the Secretary of State determines that it is in the national interest of the United States to provide such transportation other than by the most economical means available. The means used to provide such transportation may include the use of aircraft and personnel of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as waiving the requirements of section 2631 of this title and sections 901(b) and 901b of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241(b) and 1241f).
  (d) T4Availability of FundsK.–To the extent provided in appropriation Acts, funds appropriated for humanitarian assistance for the purposes of this section shall remain available until expended.
  (e) T4Status ReportsK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall submit (at the times specified in paragraph (2)) to the Committees on Armed Services and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Armed Services and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the provision of humanitarian assistance pursuant to this section.
  (2)    (A) Whenever there is enacted a defense authorization Act that contains an authorization of appropriations for humanitarian assistance, a report referred to in paragraph (1) shall be submitted as provided in that paragraph not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of that Act.
    (B) In addition to reports submitted as provided in subparagraph (A), a report shall be submitted under paragraph (1) not later than June 1 of each year.
  (3) Each report required by paragraph (1) shall cover all provisions of law, contained in defense authorization Acts, that authorize appropriations for humanitarian assistance to be available for the purposes of this section. A report submitted after the obligation of all amounts appropriated pursuant to such a provision of law shall not cover that provision of law.
  (4) Subject to paragraph (3), a report required by paragraph (1) shall contain (as of the date on which the report is submitted) the following information:
    (A) The total amount of funds obligated for humanitarian relief under this section.
    (B) The number of scheduled and completed flights for purposes of providing humanitarian relief under this section.
    (C) A description of any transfer of excess nonlethal supplies of the Department of Defense made available for humanitarian relief purposes under section 2547 of this title. The description shall include the date of the transfer, to whom the transfer is made, the quantity of items transferred, the acquisition value of the items transferred, and the value of the items at the time of the transfer.
  (f) T4Report Regarding Relief for Unauthorized CountriesK.–In any case in which the Secretary of Defense provides for the transportation of humanitarian relief to a country to which the transportation of humanitarian relief has not been specifically authorized by law, the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations and on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives of the Secretary“s intention to provide such transportation. The notification shall be submitted not less than 15 days before the commencement of such transportation.
  (g) T4DefinitionK.–In this section, the term ””defense authorization Act““ means an Act that authorizes appropriations for one or more fiscal years for military activities of the Department of Defense, including authorizations of appropriations for the activities described in paragraph (7) of section 114(a) of this title.
