  (a) T4Security and Safety AssistanceK.–At the request of a Federal, State, or local government agency responsible for providing law enforcement services, security services, or safety services, the Secretary of Defense may authorize the commander of a military installation or other facility of the Department of Defense or the commander of a specified or unified combatant command to provide assistance for the World Cup Soccer Games, the Goodwill Games, the Olympics, and any other civilian sporting event in support of essential security and safety at such event, but only if the Attorney General certifies that such assistance is necessary to meet essential security and safety needs.
  (b) T4Other AssistanceK.–The Secretary of Defense may authorize a commander referred to in subsection (a) to provide assistance for a sporting event referred to in that subsection in support of other needs relating to such event, but only–
    (1) to the extent that such needs cannot reasonably be met by a source other than the Department;
    (2) to the extent that the provision of such assistance does not adversely affect the military preparedness of the armed forces; and
    (3) if the organization requesting such assistance agrees to reimburse the Department for amounts expended by the Department in providing the assistance in accordance with the provisions of section 377 of this title and other applicable provisions of law.
  (c) T4Inapplicability to Certain EventsK.–Subsections (a) and (b) do not apply to the following sporting events:
    (1) Sporting events for which funds have been appropriated before September 23, 1996.
    (2) The Special Olympics.
    (3) The Paralympics.
    (4) A sporting event sanctioned by the United States Olympic Committee through the Paralympic Military Program.
    (5) Any national or international paralympic sporting event (other than a sporting event described in paragraphs (1) through (4))–
      (A) that–
        (i) is held in the United States or any of its territories or commonwealths;
        (ii) is governed by the International Paralympic Committee; and
        (iii) is sanctioned by the United States Olympic Committee;
      (B) for which participation exceeds 100 amateur athletes; and
      (C) in which at least 10 percent of the athletes participating in the sporting event are members or former members of the armed forces who are participating in the sporting event based upon an injury or wound incurred in the line of duty in the armed force and veterans who are participating in the sporting event based upon a service-connected disability.
  (d) T4Terms and ConditionsK.–The Secretary of Defense may require such terms and conditions in connection with the provision of assistance under this section as the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
  (e) T4Report on AssistanceK.–Not later than January 30 of each year following a year in which the Secretary of Defense provides assistance under this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the assistance provided. The report shall set forth–
    (1) a description of the assistance provided;
    (2) the amount expended by the Department in providing the assistance;
    (3) if the assistance was provided under subsection (a), the certification of the Attorney General with respect to the assistance under that subsection; and
    (4) if the assistance was provided under subsection (b)–
      (A) an explanation why the assistance could not reasonably be met by a source other than the Department; and
      (B) the amount the Department was reimbursed under that subsection.
  (f) T4Relationship to Other LawsK.–Assistance provided under this section shall be subject to the provisions of sections 375 and 376 of this title.
  (g) T4Funding for Support of Certain EventsK.–(1) Amounts for the provision of support for a sporting event described in paragraph (4) or (5) of subsection (c) may be derived from the Support for International Sporting Competitions, Defense account established by section 5802 of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104–208; 10 U.S.C. 2564 note), notwithstanding any limitation under that section relating to the availability of funds in such account for the provision of support for international sporting competitions.
  (2) The total amount expended for any fiscal year to provide support for sporting events described in subsection (c)(5) may not exceed $1,000,000.
