  (a) The Secretary of Defense may accept, hold, administer, and spend any gift (including any gift of an interest in real property) made on the condition that it be used in connection with the operation or administration of a defense dependents“ school. The Secretary may pay all necessary expenses in connection with the acceptance of a gift under this subsection.
  (b) There is established in the Treasury a fund to be known as the ””Department of Defense Dependents“ Education Gift Fund““. Gifts of money, and the proceeds of the sale of property, received under subsection (a) shall be deposited in the fund. The Secretary may disburse funds deposited under this subsection for the benefit or use of defense dependents“ schools, subject to the terms of the gift.
  (c) Subsection (c) of section 2601 of this title applies to property that is accepted under subsection (a) in the same manner that such subsection applies to property that is accepted under subsection (a) of that section.
  (d)    (1) Upon request of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury may–
      (A) retain money, securities, and the proceeds of the sale of securities, in the Department of Defense Dependents“ Education Gift Fund; and
      (B) invest money and reinvest the proceeds of the sale of securities in that fund in securities of the United States or in securities guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
    (2) The interest and profits accruing from those securities shall be deposited to the credit of the fund and may be disbursed as provided in subsection (b).
  (e) In this section, the term ””gift““ includes a devise of real property or a bequest of personal property.
  (f) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
  (g) In this section, the term ””defense dependents“ school““ means the following:
    (1) A school established as part of the defense dependents“ education system provided for under the Defense Dependents“ Education Act of 1978 (20 U.S.C. 921 et seq.).
    (2) An elementary or secondary school established pursuant to section 2164 of this title.
