  (a)    (1) Whenever the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that it is necessary for the effective conduct of the affairs of his department, the Secretary may provide the transportation described in paragraph (2).
    (2) Transportation that may be provided under this subsection is assured and adequate transportation by motor vehicle or water carrier as follows:
      (A) Transportation among places on a military installation (including any subinstallation of a military installation).
      (B) Transportation to and from their places of duty or employment on a military installation for persons covered by this subsection.
      (C) Transportation to and from a military installation for persons covered by this subsection and their dependents, in the case of a military installation located in an area determined by the Secretary concerned not to be adequately served by regularly scheduled, and timely, commercial or municipal mass transit services.
      (D) Transportation to and from their places of employment for persons attached to, or employed in, a private plant that is manufacturing material for that department, but only during a war or a national emergency declared by Congress or the President.
    (3) Except as provided under subsection (b)(3), transportation under this subsection shall be provided at reasonable rates of fare under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
    (4) Persons covered by this subsection, in the case of any military installation, are members of the armed forces, employees of the military department concerned, and other persons attached to that department who are assigned to or employed at that installation.
  (b)    (1) Transportation described in subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) of subsection (a)(2) may not be provided unless the Secretary concerned, or an officer of the department concerned designated by the Secretary, determines that–
      (A) other facilities are inadequate and cannot be made adequate;
      (B) a reasonable effort has been made to induce operators of private facilities to provide the necessary transportation; and
      (C) the service to be furnished will make proper use of transportation facilities and will supply the most efficient transportation to the persons concerned.
    (2) The Secretary of Defense shall require that, in determining whether to provide transportation described in subsection (a)(2)(A) at any military installation, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall give careful consideration to the potential for saving energy and reducing air pollution.
    (3) In providing transportation described in subsection (a)(2)(A) at any military installation, the Secretary concerned may not require a fare for the transportation of members of the armed forces if the transportation is incident to the performance of duty. In providing transportation described in subsection (a)(2)(C) to and from any military installation, the Secretary concerned (under regulations prescribed under subsection (a)(3)) may waive any requirement for a fare.
    (4) The authority under subsection (a) to enter into contracts under which the United States is obligated to make outlays shall be effective for any fiscal year only to the extent that the budget authority for such outlays is provided in advance by appropriation Acts.
  (c) To provide transportation under subsection (a), the department may–
    (1) buy, lease, or charter motor vehicles or water carriers having a seating capacity of 12 or more passengers;
    (2) maintain and operate that equipment by–
      (A) enlisted members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or the Coast Guard, as the case may be;
      (B) employees of the department concerned; and
      (C) private persons under contract; and
    (3) lease or charter the equipment to private or public carriers for operation under terms that are considered necessary by the Secretary or by an officer of the department designated by the Secretary, and that may provide for the pooling of Government-owned and privately owned equipment and facilities and for the reciprocal use of that equipment.
  (d) Fares received under subsection (a), and proceeds of the leasing or chartering of equipment under subsection (c)(3), shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
