  (a) The President, through an executive department, may sell to any person or foreign government any interest in land that is acquired under section 2664 of this title for the production of lumber or timber products, except land under the control of the Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force.
  (b) The President, through an executive department, may sell to any person or foreign government any forest products produced on land owned or leased by a military department or the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating.
  (c) Sales under subsection (a) or (b) shall be at prices determined by the President acting through the selling agency.
  (d) Appropriations of the Department of Defense may be reimbursed for all costs of production of forest products pursuant to this section from amounts received as proceeds from the sale of any such property.
  (e)    (1) Each State in which is located a military installation or facility from which forest products are sold in a fiscal year is entitled at the end of such year to an amount equal to 40 percent of (A) the amount received by the United States during such year as proceeds from the sale of forest products produced on such installation or facility, less (B) the amount of reimbursement of appropriations of the Department of Defense under subsection (d) during such year attributable to such installation or facility.
    (2) The amount paid to a State pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be expended as the State legislature may prescribe for the benefit of the public schools and public roads of the county or counties in which the military installation or facility is situated.
    (3) In a case in which a military installation or facility is located in more than one State or county, the amount paid pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be distributed in a manner proportional to the area of such installation or facility in each State or county.
  (f)    (1) There is in the Treasury a reserve account administered by the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of this section. Balances in the account may be used for costs of the military departments–
      (A) for improvements of forest lands;
      (B) for unanticipated contingencies in the administration of forest lands and the production of forest products for which other sources of funds are not available in a timely manner; and
      (C) for natural resources management that implements approved plans and agreements.
    (2) There shall be deposited into the reserve account the total amount received by the United States as proceeds from the sale of forest products sold under subsections (a) and (b) less–
      (A) reimbursements of appropriations made under subsection (d), and
      (B) payments made to States under subsection (e).
    (3) The reserve account may not exceed $4,000,000 on December 31 of any calendar year. Unobligated balances exceeding $4,000,000 on that date shall be deposited into the United States Treasury.
