  (a) T4AuthorityK.–The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department may enter into a cooperative agreement with a State or local government or other entity for the preservation, management, maintenance, and improvement of cultural resources located on a site authorized by subsection (b) and for the conduct of research regarding the cultural resources. Activities under the cooperative agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds to carry out the cooperative agreement.
  (b) T4Authorized Cultural Resources SitesK.–To be covered by a cooperative agreement under subsection (a), cultural resources must be located–
    (1) on a military installation; or
    (2) on a site outside of a military installation, but only if the cooperative agreement will directly relieve or eliminate current or anticipated restrictions that would or might restrict, impede, or otherwise interfere, whether directly or indirectly, with current or anticipated military training, testing, or operations on a military installation.
  (c) T4Application of Other LawsK.–Section 1535 and chapter 63 of title 31 shall not apply to a cooperative agreement entered into under this section.
  (d) T4Cultural Resource DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””cultural resource““ means any of the following:
    (1) A building, structure, site, district, or object eligible for or included in the National Register of Historic Places maintained under section 101(a) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a(a)).
    (2) Cultural items, as that term is defined in section 2(3) of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001(3)).
    (3) An archaeological resource, as that term is defined in section 3(1) of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470bb(1)).
    (4) An archaeological artifact collection and associated records covered by section 79 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.
    (5) An Indian sacred site, as defined in section 1(b)(iii) of Executive Order No. 13007.
