  (a) T4Transfers Between Armed ForcesK.–If either of the Secretaries concerned requests it and the other approves, real property may be transferred, without compensation, from one armed force to another. Section 2571(d) of this title shall apply to the transfer of real property under this subsection.
  (b) T4Screening Requirements for Additional Federal UseK.–The Secretary concerned may not convey real property that is authorized or required to be conveyed, whether for or without consideration, by any provision of law enacted after December 31, 1997, unless the Administrator of General Services has screened the property for further Federal use in accordance with subtitle I of title 40 and title III of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 251 et seq.).
  (c) T4Time for ScreeningK.–(1) Before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of a provision of law authorizing or requiring the conveyance of a parcel of real property by the Secretary concerned, the Administrator of General Services shall complete the screening referred to in subsection (b) with regard to the real property and notify the Secretary concerned and Congress of the results of the screening. The notice shall include–
    (A) the name of the Federal agency requesting transfer of the property;
    (B) the proposed use to be made of the property by the Federal agency; and
    (C) the fair market value of the property, including any improvements thereon, as estimated by the Administrator.
  (2) If the Administrator fails to complete the screening and notify the Secretary concerned and Congress within such period, the Secretary concerned shall proceed with the conveyance of the real property as provided in the provision of law authorizing or requiring the conveyance.
  (d) T4Effect of Submission of NoticeK.–If the Administrator of General Services submits notice under subsection (c)(1) that further Federal use of a parcel of real property is requested by a Federal agency, the Secretary concerned may not proceed with the conveyance of the real property as provided in the provision of law authorizing or requiring the conveyance until the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date on which the notice is submitted to Congress.
  (e) T4Excepted Conveyance AuthoritiesK.–The screening requirements of subsection (b) shall not apply to real property authorized or required to be conveyed under any of the following provisions of law:
    (1) A base closure law.
    (2) Chapter 5 of title 40.
    (3) Any specific provision of law authorizing or requiring the transfer of administrative jurisdiction over a parcel of real property between Federal agencies.
  (f) T4Screening and Conveyance of Property for Correctional Facilities PurposesK.–(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), before any real property or facility of the United States that is under the jurisdiction of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the Department of Defense is determined to be excess to the needs of such department, agency, or instrumentality, the Secretary of Defense shall–
    (A) provide adequate notification of the availability of such real property or facility within the Department of Defense;
    (B) if the real property or facility remains available after such notification, notify the Attorney General of its availability; and
    (C) if the Attorney General certifies to the Secretary of Defense that a determination has been made by the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance within the Department of Justice to utilize the real property or facility under the correctional options program carried out under section 515 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3762a), convey the real property or facility, without reimbursement, to a public agency referred to in paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (a) of such section for such utilization.
  (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply–
    (A) to real property and facilities to which title II of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100–526) is applicable; and
    (B) during any portion of a fiscal year after four conveyances have been made under paragraph (1) in such fiscal year.
