  (a) T4Establishment of AccountsK.–There are hereby established in the Department of Defense the following accounts:
    (1) An account to be known as the ””Environmental Restoration Account, Defense““.
    (2) An account to be known as the ””Environmental Restoration Account, Army““.
    (3) An account to be known as the ””Environmental Restoration Account, Navy““.
    (4) An account to be known as the ””Environmental Restoration Account, Air Force““.
    (5) An account to be known as the ””Environmental Restoration Account, Formerly Used Defense Sites““.
  (b) T4Program Elements for Ordnance RemediationK.–The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program element for remediation of unexploded ordnance, discarded military munitions, and munitions constituents within each environmental restoration account established under subsection (a). The terms ””unexploded ordnance““, ””discarded military munitions““, and ””munitions constituents““ have the meanings given such terms in section 2710 of this title.
  (c) T4Obligation of Authorized AmountsK.–(1) Funds authorized for deposit in an account under subsection (a) may be obligated or expended from the account only–
    (A) to carry out the environmental restoration functions of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments under this chapter and under any other provision of law; and
    (B) to pay for the costs of permanently relocating a facility because of a release or threatened release of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants from–
      (i) real property on which the facility is located and that is currently under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department; or
      (ii) real property on which the facility is located and that was under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department at the time of the actions leading to the release or threatened release.
  (2) The authority provided by paragraph (1)(B) expires September 30, 2003. The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department may not pay the costs of permanently relocating a facility under such paragraph unless the Secretary–
    (A) determines that permanent relocation–
      (i) is the most cost effective method of responding to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants from the real property on which the facility is located;
      (ii) has the approval of relevant regulatory agencies; and
      (iii) is supported by the affected community; and
    (B) submits to Congress written notice of the determination before undertaking the permanent relocation of the facility, including a description of the response action taken or to be taken in connection with the permanent relocation and a statement of the costs incurred or to be incurred in connection with the permanent relocation.
  (3) If relocation costs are to be paid under paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a facility located on real property described in clause (ii) of such paragraph, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the military department concerned may use only fund transfer mechanisms otherwise available to the Secretary.
  (4) Funds authorized for deposit in an account under subsection (a) shall remain available until expended. Not more than 5 percent of the funds deposited in an account under subsection (a) for a fiscal year may be used to pay relocation costs under paragraph (1)(B).
  (d) T4Budget ReportsK.–In proposing the budget for any fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the President shall set forth separately the amounts requested for environmental restoration programs of the Department of Defense and of each of the military departments under this chapter and under any other Act.
  (e) T4Credit of Amounts RecoveredK.–The following amounts shall be credited to the appropriate environmental restoration account:
    (1) Amounts recovered under CERCLA for response actions.
    (2) Any other amounts recovered from a contractor, insurer, surety, or other person to reimburse the Department of Defense or a military department for any expenditure for environmental response activities.
  (f) T4Payments of Fines and PenaltiesK.–None of the funds appropriated to the Environmental Restoration Account, Defense, for fiscal years 1995 through 2010, or to any environmental restoration account of a military department for fiscal years 1997 through 2010, may be used for the payment of a fine or penalty (including any supplemental environmental project carried out as part of such penalty) imposed against the Department of Defense or a military department unless the act or omission for which the fine or penalty is imposed arises out of an activity funded by the environmental restoration account concerned and the payment of the fine or penalty has been specifically authorized by law.
  (g) T4Sole Source of Funds for Operation and Monitoring of Environmental RemediesK.–(1) The sole source of funds for all phases of an environmental remedy at a site under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense or a formerly used defense site shall be the applicable environmental restoration account established under subsection (a).
  (2) In this subsection, the term ””environmental remedy““ has the meaning given the term ””remedy““ in section 101 of CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 9601).
