  (a) T4Expedited NoticeK.–The Secretary of Defense shall take such actions as necessary to ensure that the regional offices of the Environmental Protection Agency and appropriate State and local authorities for the State in which a facility under the Secretary“s jurisdiction is located receive prompt notice of each of the following:
    (1) The discovery of releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at the facility.
    (2) The extent of the threat to public health and the environment which may be associated with any such release or threatened release.
    (3) Proposals made by the Secretary to carry out response actions with respect to any such release or threatened release.
    (4) The initiation of any response action with respect to such release or threatened release and the commencement of each distinct phase of such activities.
  (b) T4Comment by EPA and State and Local Authorities.–
    (1) T4Release noticesK.–The Secretary shall ensure that the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and appropriate State and local officials have an adequate opportunity to comment on notices under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
    (2) T4Proposals for response actionsK.–The Secretary shall require that an adequate opportunity for timely review and comment be afforded to the Administrator and to appropriate State and local officials after making a proposal referred to in subsection (a)(3) and before undertaking an activity or action referred to in subsection (a)(4). The preceding sentence does not apply if the action is an emergency removal taken because of imminent and substantial endangerment to human health or the environment and consultation would be impractical.
  (c) T4Technical Review CommitteeK.–Whenever possible and practical, the Secretary shall establish a technical review committee to review and comment on Department of Defense actions and proposed actions with respect to releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at installations. Members of any such committee shall include at least one representative of the Secretary, the Administrator, and appropriate State and local authorities and shall include a public representative of the community involved.
  (d) T4Restoration Advisory BoardK.–(1) In lieu of establishing a technical review committee under subsection (c), the Secretary may permit the establishment of a restoration advisory board in connection with any installation (or group of nearby installations) where the Secretary is planning or implementing environmental restoration activities.
  (2) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations regarding the characteristics, composition, funding, and establishment of restoration advisory boards pursuant to this subsection. However, the issuance of regulations shall not be a precondition to the establishment of a restoration advisory board or affect the existence or operation of a restoration advisory board established before the date of the enactment of this section.\1\N
  (3) The Secretary may provide for the payment of routine administrative expenses of a restoration advisory board from funds available for the operation and maintenance of the installation (or installations) for which the board is established or from the funds available under subsection (e)(3).
  (e) T4Assistance for Citizen ParticipationK.–(1) Using funds made available under paragraph (3), the Secretary may make technical assistance grants under section 117(e) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9617(e)) in connection with installations containing facilities listed on the National Priorities List.
  (2)    (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall make available under paragraph (3) funds to facilitate the participation of individuals from the private sector on technical review committees and restoration advisory boards at installations not covered by paragraph (1) for the purpose of ensuring public input into the planning and implementation of environmental restoration activities at the installations for which such committees and boards are in operation.
    (B) The private individuals who are members of a committee or advisory board are eligible for funding assistance under this paragraph only if they reside in the vicinity of the installation (or installations) for which the committee or advisory board is established and are not potentially responsible parties with respect to environmental hazards at any installation. Funds shall be paid to, and administered by, the committee or advisory board on which the private individuals are members for accounting and financial management purposes, subject to subparagraph (C).
    (C) Individuals who are local community members of a technical review committee or restoration advisory board may use funds made available under this paragraph only–
      (i) to obtain technical assistance in interpreting scientific and engineering issues with regard to the nature of environmental hazards at an installation and the restoration activities proposed for or conducted at the installation; and
      (ii) to assist such members and affected citizens to participate more effectively in environmental restoration activities at the installation.
    (D) The members of a technical review committee or restoration advisory board may use funds made available under this paragraph to employ technical or other experts, in accordance with the regulations prescribed under subsection (d)(2).
  (3)    (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall make funds available under this subsection using funds in the following accounts:
      (i) In the case of a military installation not closed pursuant to a base closure law, the Defense Environmental Restoration Account established in section 2703(a) of this title.
      (ii) In the case of a technical review committee or restoration advisory board established for a military installation to be closed, the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990 established under section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101–510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
    (B) The total amount of funds available under this subsection for fiscal year 1995 may not exceed $7,500,000.
  (f) T4Involvement in Defense Environmental Restoration ProgramK.–If a technical review committee or restoration advisory board is established with respect to an installation (or group of installations), the Secretary shall consult with and seek the advice of the committee or board on the following issues:
    (1) Identifying environmental restoration activities and projects at the installation or installations.
    (2) Monitoring progress on these activities and projects.
    (3) Collecting information regarding restoration priorities for the installation or installations.
    (4) Addressing land use, level of restoration, acceptable risk, and waste management and technology development issues related to environmental restoration at the installation or installations.
    (5) Developing environmental restoration strategies for the installation or installations.
