  (a) T4Report RequiredK.–The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress each year, not later than 45 days after the date on which the President submits to Congress the budget for a fiscal year, a report on defense environmental programs. Each report shall include:
    (1) With respect to environmental restoration activities of the Department of Defense, and for each of the military departments, the following elements:
      (A) Information on the Environmental Restoration Program, including the following:
        (i) The total number of sites in the Environmental Restoration Program.
        (ii) The number of sites in the Environmental Restoration Program that have reached the Remedy in Place Stage and the Response Complete Stage, and the change in such numbers in the preceding fiscal year.
        (iii) A statement of the amount of funds allocated by the Secretary for, and the anticipated progress in implementing, the Environmental Restoration Program during the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted.
        (iv) The Secretary“s assessment of the overall progress of the Environmental Restoration Program.
      (B) Information on the Military Munitions Restoration Program (MMRP), including the following:
        (i) The total number of sites in the MMRP.
        (ii) The number of sites that have reached the Remedy in Place Stage and the Response Complete Stage, and the change in such numbers in the preceding fiscal year.
        (iii) A statement of the amount of funds allocated by the Secretary for, and the anticipated progress in implementing, the MMRP during the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted.
        (iv) The Secretary“s assessment of the overall progress of the MMRP.
    (2) With respect to each of the major activities under the environmental quality program of the Department of Defense and for each of the military departments–
      (A) a statement of the amount expended, or proposed to be expended, during the period consisting of the four fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted, the current fiscal year, the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted, and the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted; and
      (B) an explanation for any significant change in such amounts during the period covered.
    (3) With respect to the environmental technology program of the Department of Defense–
      (A) a report on the progress made in achieving the objectives and goals of its environmental technology program during the preceding fiscal year and an overall trend analysis for the program covering the previous four fiscal years; and
      (B) a statement of the amount expended, or proposed to be expended, during the period consisting of the four fiscal years preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted, the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted, and the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted.
  (b) T4DefinitionsK.–For purposes of this section–
    (1) the term ””environmental quality program““ means a program of activities relating to environmental compliance, conservation, pollution prevention, and other activities relating to environmental quality as the Secretary may designate; and
    (2) the term ””major activities““ with respect to an environmental program means–
      (A) environmental compliance activities;
      (B) conservation activities; and
      (C) pollution prevention activities.
