  (a) T4Transfers Back to Foreign Currency Fluctuations AppropriationK.–(1) Funds transferred from the appropriation ””Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense““ may be transferred back to the appropriation–
    (A) when the funds are not needed to pay obligations incurred because of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries in the appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred; and
    (B) because of subsequent favorable fluctuations in the rates or because other funds are, or become, available to pay the obligations.
  (2) A transfer back to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense appropriation may not be made after the end of the second fiscal year after the fiscal year that the appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred is available for obligation.
  (b) T4Funding for Losses in Military Construction and Family HousingK.–(1) One hundred million dollars, plus $25,000,000 from Family Housing, Defense, are appropriated to the Secretary of Defense, to remain available until spent. The appropriation is available only to provide funds to eliminate losses in military construction or expenses of family housing for the Department of Defense caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries that changed after a budget request was submitted to Congress.
  (2) Funds provided under this subsection are merged with and are available for the same purpose and for the same time period as the appropriation to which they are applied. An authorization or limitation limiting the amount that may be obligated or spent is increased to the extent necessary to reflect fluctuations in exchange rates from those used in preparing the budget submission.
  (3) An obligation payable in the currency of a foreign country may be recorded as an obligation based on exchange rates used in preparing a budget submission. A change reflecting fluctuations in the exchange rate may be recorded as a disbursement is made.
  (c) T4Transfers to Military Personnel AccountsK.–The Secretary of Defense may transfer funds to military personnel appropriations for a fiscal year out of funds available to the Department of Defense for that fiscal year under the appropriation ””Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense““.
  (d) T4Transfers to Foreign Currency Fluctuations AccountK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense may transfer to the appropriation ””Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense““ unobligated amounts of funds appropriated for operation and maintenance and unobligated amounts of funds appropriated for military personnel.
  (2) Any transfer from an appropriation under paragraph (1) shall be made not later than the end of the second fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the appropriation is provided.
  (3) Any transfer made pursuant to the authority provided in this subsection shall be limited so that the amount in the appropriation ””Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense““ does not exceed $970,000,000 at the time the transfer is made.
  (e) T4Conditions of Availability for Transferred FundsK.–Amounts transferred under subsection (c) or (d) shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same period as the appropriations to which transferred.
