  (a) T4Authority to Carry Out Unspecified Minor Military Construction ProjectsK.–(1) Within an amount equal to 125 percent of the amount authorized by law for such purpose, the Secretary concerned may carry out unspecified minor military construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.
  (2) An unspecified minor military construction project is a military construction project that has an approved cost equal to or less than $2,000,000. However, if the military construction project is intended solely to correct a deficiency that is life-threatening, health-threatening, or safety-threatening, an unspecified minor military construction project may have an approved cost equal to or less than $3,000,000.
  (b) T4Approval and Congressional NotificationK.–(1) An unspecified minor military construction project costing more than $750,000 may not be carried out under this section unless approved in advance by the Secretary concerned. This paragraph shall apply even though the project is to be carried out using funds made available to enhance the deployment and mobility of military forces and supplies.
  (2) When a decision is made to carry out an unspecified minor military construction project to which paragraph (1) is applicable, the Secretary concerned shall notify in writing the appropriate committees of Congress of that decision, of the justification for the project, and of the estimated cost of the project. The project may then be carried out only after the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the notification is received by the committees or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.
  (c) T4Use of Operation and Maintenance FundsK.–(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary concerned may spend from appropriations available for operation and maintenance amounts necessary to carry out an unspecified minor military construction project costing not more than–
    (A) $1,500,000, in the case of an unspecified minor military construction project intended solely to correct a deficiency that is life-threatening, health-threatening, or safety-threatening; or
    (B) $750,000, in the case of any other unspecified minor military construction project.
  (2) The limitations specified in paragraph (1) shall not apply to an unspecified minor military construction project if the project is to be carried out using funds made available to enhance the deployment and mobility of military forces and supplies.
  (d) T4Laboratory RevitalizationK.–(1) For the revitalization and recapitalization of laboratories owned by the United States and under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned, the Secretary concerned may obligate and expend–
    (A) from appropriations available to the Secretary concerned for operation and maintenance, amounts necessary to carry out an unspecified minor military construction project costing not more than $2,000,000; or
    (B) from appropriations available to the Secretary concerned for military construction not otherwise authorized by law or from funds authorized to be made available under section 219(a) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), amounts necessary to carry out an unspecified minor military construction project costing not more than $4,000,000.
  (2) For an unspecified minor military construction project conducted pursuant to this subsection, $2,000,000 shall be deemed to be the amount specified in subsection (b)(1) regarding when advance approval of the project by the Secretary concerned and congressional notification is required. The Secretary of Defense shall establish procedures for the review and approval of requests from the Secretary of a military department to carry out a construction project under this subsection.
  (3) Not later than February 1, 2010, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the use of the authority provided by this subsection. The report shall include a list and description of the construction projects carried out under this subsection, including the location and cost of each project.
  (4) In this subsection, the term ””laboratory““ includes–
    (A) a research, engineering, and development center; and
    (B) a test and evaluation activity.
  (5) The authority to carry out a project under this subsection expires on September 30, 2012.
  (e) T4Prohibition on Use for New Housing UnitsK.– Military family housing projects for construction of new housing units may not be carried out under the authority of this section.
