  (a) In the construction, acquisition, and improvement of military family housing units, the following are the space limitations for the applicable numbers of bedrooms permitted for each pay grade:
      
     0–7 and above D4 D2,100 
     0–6 D4 D1,700 
     0–4 and 0–5 D4 D1,550 
       D3 D1,400 
     0–1 through 0–3; W–1 through W–4; and E–7 through E–9 D5 D1,550 
       D4 D1,450 
       D3 D1,350 
       D2 D950 
     E–1 through E–6 D5 D1,550 
       D4 D1,350 
       D3 D1,200 
       D2 D950 
  (b) The applicable maximum net floor area prescribed by subsection (a) may be increased by 10 percent for the housing unit of an officer holding a special command position (as designated by the Secretary of Defense), for the housing unit of the commanding officer of a military installation, and for the senior noncommissioned officer of a military installation.
  (c) The maximum net floor area prescribed by subsection (a) may be increased in any case by 5 percent if the Secretary concerned determines that the increase is in the best interest of the Government (1) to permit award of a turnkey construction contract to the contractor offering the most satisfactory proposal, or (2) to permit purchase, lease, or conversion of housing units. An increase in the maximum net floor area of a housing unit under subsection (b) when combined with an increase in the maximum net floor area of such unit under this subsection may not exceed 10 percent of the otherwise applicable limitation prescribed by subsection (a).
  (d) The applicable maximum net floor area prescribed by subsection (a) may be increased by 300 square feet for a family housing unit in a location where harsh climatological conditions severely restrict outdoor activity for a significant part of each year, as determined by the Secretary concerned pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. The regulations shall apply uniformly to the armed forces.
  (e) In the case of the acquisition by purchase of military family housing units for members of the armed forces in pay grades below pay grade O–6, the applicable maximum net floor area prescribed by subsection (a) may be increased by 20 percent if the Secretary concerned determines that the purchase of larger units is cost effective when compared to available units within the space limitations specified in that subsection.
  (f)    (1) The Secretary concerned may waive the provisions of subsection (a) with respect to a family housing unit leased in a foreign country if a suitable family housing unit within the applicable maximum net floor area prescribed by such subsection cannot be obtained.
    (2) Subsection (a) does not apply to family housing units in foreign countries constructed or acquired by the Secretary of State for occupancy by members of the armed forces.
  (g) The maximum net floor areas prescribed by this section apply to family housing provided to civilian personnel based upon civilian pay scale comparability with military pay grades, as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
  (h) In this section, the term ””net floor area““ means the total number of square feet of the floor space inside the exterior walls of a structure, excluding the floor area of an unfinished basement, an unfinished attic, a utility space, a garage, a carport, an open or insect-screened porch, a stairwell, and any space used for a solar-energy system.
    (i)      (1) The Secretary concerned may waive the provisions of subsection (a) with respect to military family housing units constructed, acquired, or improved during the five-year period beginning on February 10, 1996.
      (2) The total number of military family housing units constructed, acquired, or improved during any fiscal year in the period referred to in paragraph (1) shall be the total number of such units authorized by law for that fiscal year.
