  (a) T4Limited PartnershipsK.–(1) In order to meet the housing requirements of members of the naval service, and the dependents of such members, at a military installation described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Navy may enter into a limited partnership with one or more private developers to encourage the construction of housing and accessory structures within commuting distance of the installation. The Secretary may contribute not less than five percent, but not more than 35 percent, of the development costs under a limited partnership.
  (2) Paragraph (1) applies to a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary at which there is a shortage of suitable housing to meet the requirements of members and dependents referred to in such paragraph.
  (b) T4Collateral Incentive AgreementsK.–The Secretary may also enter into collateral incentive agreements with private developers who enter into a limited partnership under subsection (a) to ensure that, where appropriate–
    (1) a suitable preference will be afforded members of the naval service in the lease or purchase, as the case may be, of a reasonable number of the housing units covered by the limited partnership; or
    (2) the rental rates or sale prices, as the case may be, for some or all of such units will be affordable for such members.
  (c) T4Selection of Investment OpportunitiesK.–(1) The Secretary shall use publicly advertised, competitively bid or competitively negotiated, contracting procedures, as provided in chapter 137 of this title, to enter into limited partnerships under subsection (a).
  (2) When a decision is made to enter into a limited partnership under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit a report in writing to the appropriate committees of Congress on that decision. Each such report shall include the justification for the limited partnership, the terms and conditions of the limited partnership, a description of the development costs for projects under the limited partnership, and a description of the share of such costs to be incurred by the Secretary. The Secretary may then enter into the limited partnership only after the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the report is received by such committees.
  (d) T4AccountK.–(1) There is hereby established on the books of the Treasury an account to be known as the ””Navy Housing Investment Account““.
  (2) There shall be deposited into the Account–
    (A) such funds as may be authorized for and appropriated to the Account; and
    (B) any proceeds received by the Secretary from the repayment of investments or profits on investments of the Secretary under subsection (a).
  (3) In such amounts as is provided in advance in appropriation Acts, the Account shall be available for contracts, investments, and expenses necessary for the implementation of this section.
  (4) The Secretary may not enter into a contract in connection with a limited partnership under subsection (a) or a collateral incentive agreement under subsection (b) unless the Account contains sufficient funds, as of the time the contract is entered into, to satisfy the total obligations to be incurred by the United States under the contract.
  (e) T4Navy Housing Investment BoardK.–(1) The Secretary of the Navy shall establish a board to be known as the ””Navy Housing Investment Board““, which shall have the duties–
    (A) of advising the Secretary regarding those proposed limited partnerships under subsection (a), if any, that are financially and otherwise sound investments for meeting the objectives of this section;
    (B) of administering the Account established under subsection (d); and
    (C) of assisting the Secretary in such other ways as the Secretary determines to be necessary and appropriate to carry out this section.
  (2) The Navy Housing Investment Board shall be composed of seven members appointed for a two-year term by the Secretary. Among such members, the Secretary may appoint two persons from the private sector who have knowledge and experience in the financing and the construction of housing. The Secretary shall designate one of the members as chairperson of the Board.
  (3) Members of the Navy Housing Investment Board, other than those members regularly employed by the Federal Government, may be paid while attending meetings of the Board or otherwise serving at the request of the Secretary, compensation at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the minimum annual rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5 for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Board. Members shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with section 5702 and 5703 of title 5.
  (4) The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Navy Housing Investment Board.
  (f) T4ReportK.–Not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year in which the Secretary carries out activities under this section, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report specifying the amount and nature of the deposits into, and the expenditures from, the Account during such fiscal year and of the amount and nature of all other expenditures made pursuant to such section during such fiscal year.
  (g) T4Transfer of Navy Lands ProhibitedK.–Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the Secretary, as part of a limited partnership entered into under this section, to transfer the right, title, or interest of the United States in any real property under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
  (h) T4Expiration and Termination of AuthoritiesK.–(1) The authority of the Secretary to enter into a limited partnership under this section shall expire on September 30, 1999.
  (2) The Navy Housing Investment Board shall terminate on November 30, 1999.
