  (a) The Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress each year with respect to military construction activities and military family housing activities. Each such report shall be submitted at the same time that the annual request for military construction authorization is submitted for that year. Except where otherwise provided in this section, information required by this section to be provided in the report shall be provided for the two most recent fiscal years and for the fiscal year for which the budget request is made.
  (b) Each report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
    (1) A statement of the construction status and a fiscal summary of the military construction projects undertaken under, and the amounts authorized and appropriated for, contingency construction under section 2804 of this title.
    (2) Information to enable the committees to evaluate the relationships between budget requests for appropriations for unspecified minor construction projects under section 2805 of this title and obligations of appropriated funds for projects under such section. Such information shall include comparisons of budget requests and obligations using military construction appropriations and using operations and maintenance appropriations, maintenance and repair backlog, and obligations for maintenance and repair.
    (3) Information to enable the committees to monitor trends in construction started using funds contributed by the United States under section 2806 of this title to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure program and the status of recoupments under that program.
    (4) Information to enable the committees to evaluate trends in contracting for architect and engineering services and construction design, and trends in accomplishing design of construction projects by Government employees, under the authority of section 2807 of this title.
    (5) Information to enable the committees to evaluate trends in supervision, inspection, and overhead costs for the dollar amount of military construction accomplished during a fiscal year by a military construction department or agency under the authority of section 2851 of this title.
    (6) A summary of military construction projects (other than a military construction project for an amount less than the amount specified by section 2805(a)(2) of this title as the maximum amount for a minor military construction project) placed under contract during the preceding fiscal year with respect to which a cost variation or scope reduction report was supplied to the appropriate committees of Congress under section 2853 of this title. There shall also be included an analysis to indicate whether the cost variation was the result of a lack of competition, quality of plans and specifications, or quality of budget estimates, or of other factors.
    (7) Information to enable the committees to evaluate the use of the authority provided under section 2858 of this title to expedite a military construction project when such expediting is required to protect the national interest.
    (8) Information in sufficient detail to enable the committees to monitor trends in design, construction, performance goals, and progress.
    (9) With respect to each contract awarded during the preceding fiscal year on other than a competitive basis to the lowest responsible bidder, the name of the contractor, the original amount of the contract, and the reason for the award of the contract on other than a competitive basis.
