  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–There are hereby established on the books of the Treasury the following accounts:
    (1) The Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund.
    (2) The Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund.
  (b) T4Commingling of Funds ProhibitedK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall administer each Fund separately.
  (2) Amounts in the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund may be used only to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing.
  (3) Amounts in the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund may be used only to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing.
  (c) T4Credits to FundsK.–(1) There shall be credited to the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund the following:
    (A) Amounts authorized for and appropriated to that Fund.
    (B) Subject to subsection (f), any amounts that the Secretary of Defense transfers, in such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts, to that Fund from amounts authorized and appropriated to the Department of Defense for the acquisition or construction of military family housing.
    (C) Proceeds from the conveyance or lease of property or facilities under section 2878 of this title for the purpose of carrying out activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing.
    (D) Income derived from any activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing, including interest on loans made under section 2873 of this title, income and gains realized from investments under section 2875 of this title, and any return of capital invested as part of such investments.
    (E) Any amounts that the Secretary of the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to section 2814(i)(3) of this title, subject to the restrictions on the use of the transferred amounts specified in that section.
    (F) Any amounts that the Secretary concerned transfers to that Fund pursuant to section 2869 of this title.
  (2) There shall be credited to the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund the following:
    (A) Amounts authorized for and appropriated to that Fund.
    (B) Subject to subsection (f), any amounts that the Secretary of Defense transfers, in such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts, to that Fund from amounts authorized and appropriated to the Department of Defense for the acquisition or construction of military unaccompanied housing.
    (C) Proceeds from the conveyance or lease of property or facilities under section 2878 of this title for the purpose of carrying out activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing.
    (D) Income derived from any activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing, including interest on loans made under section 2873 of this title, income and gains realized from investments under section 2875 of this title, and any return of capital invested as part of such investments.
    (E) Any amounts that the Secretary of the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to section 2814(i)(3) of this title, subject to the restrictions on the use of the transferred amounts specified in that section.
    (F) Any amounts that the Secretary concerned transfers to that Fund pursuant to section 2869 of this title.
  (d) T4Use of Amounts in FundsK.–(1) In such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts and except as provided in subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense may use amounts in the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing, including activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of contracts entered into under the authority of this subchapter. The Secretary may also use for expenses of activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of such contracts funds that are otherwise available to the Department of Defense for such types of expenses.
  (2) In such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts and except as provided in subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense may use amounts in the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing, including activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of contracts entered into under the authority of this subchapter. The Secretary may also use for expenses of activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of such contracts funds that are otherwise available to the Department of Defense for such types of expenses.
  (3) Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain available until expended. The Secretary of Defense may transfer amounts made available under this subsection to the Secretaries of the military departments to permit such Secretaries to carry out the activities for which such amounts may be used.
  (e) T4Limitation on ObligationsK.–The Secretary may not incur an obligation under a contract or other agreement entered into under this subchapter in excess of the unobligated balance, at the time the contract is entered into, of the Fund required to be used to satisfy the obligation.
  (f) T4Notification Required for TransfersK.–A transfer of appropriated amounts to a Fund under paragraph (1)(B) or (2)(B) of subsection (c) may be made only after the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date the Secretary of Defense submits written notice of, and justification for, the transfer to the appropriate committees of Congress or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notice and justification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.
