  (a) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report for each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 on security and control of Department of Defense supplies. Each such report shall be submitted not later than four months after the end of the fiscal year for which the report is submitted.
  (b) Each report shall include the following:
    (1) A summary of each of the physical inventory program plans of the Department of Defense, the Defense Logistics Agency, and the military departments for the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.
    (2) A discussion of the deficiencies, if any, in the security and control of Department of Defense supplies in the fiscal year preceding the year in which the report is submitted and a discussion of the extent to which such deficiencies have been corrected.
    (3) A discussion of–
      (A) research and development projects carried out by the Department of Defense in such preceding fiscal year for the improvement of the inventory and recordkeeping capabilities of the Department;
      (B) any proposals for expeditious application of any new technology resulting from such projects; and
      (C) the budget needs for research and development for such purpose in the fiscal year in which the report is submitted and any subsequent fiscal year for which the budget needs have been determined.
    (4) The budget authority made available to the Department of Defense for inventory control functions in the fiscal year in which the report is submitted and in each of the five fiscal years preceding such fiscal year.
    (5) The budget authority proposed for such purpose in the budget submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31 for the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.
    (6) The budget authority needed for such purpose in each of the five fiscal years following the fiscal year for which such budget is submitted.
    (7) An evaluation of the effectiveness of supply inventory control in the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted, the criteria used by the Secretary to make such evaluation, and the information considered by the Department in making the evaluation, including the value of supplies lost or stolen or for which accountability has otherwise been lost.
    (8) The aggregate statistics for all incidents of theft, fraud, or breach of security involving Department of Defense supplies that were investigated by military or civilian law enforcement agencies during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted (including incidents involving munitions), a summary description of all such incidents (including the circumstances under which the incidents occurred), and the lessons learned by the Department of Defense from such incidents.
    (9) A summary description of the cases determined by the Secretary of Defense to be cases of major thefts of Department of Defense supplies during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted, including any case involving a loss in an amount greater than $1,000,000 or a loss of sensitive or classified items.
    (10) The value, and an analysis, of in-transit losses that occurred during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.
