  (a) There is in the executive part of the Department of the Army an Office of the Army Reserve which is headed by a chief who is the adviser to the Chief of Staff on Army Reserve matters.
  (b) T4AppointmentK.–(1) The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint the Chief of Army Reserve from general officers of the Army Reserve who have had at least 10 years of commissioned service in the Army Reserve.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense may not recommend an officer to the President for appointment as Chief of Army Reserve unless the officer–
    (A) is recommended by the Secretary of the Army; and
    (B) is determined by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in accordance with criteria and as a result of a process established by the Chairman, to have significant joint duty experience.
  (3) An officer on active duty for service as the Chief of Army Reserve shall be counted for purposes of the grade limitations under sections 525 and 526 of this title.I11(4) Until December 31, 2006, the Secretary of Defense may waive subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) with respect to the appointment of an officer as Chief of Army Reserve if the Secretary of the Army requests the waiver and, in the judgment of the Secretary of Defense–
    (A) the officer is qualified for service in the position; and
    (B) the waiver is necessary for the good of the service.
       Any such waiver shall be made on a case-by-case basis.
  (c) T4Term; Reappointment; GradeK.–(1) The Chief of Army Reserve is appointed for a period of four years, but may be removed for cause at any time. An officer serving as Chief of Army Reserve may be reappointed for one additional four-year period.
  (2) The Chief of Army Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of lieutenant general.
  (d) T4BudgetK.–The Chief of Army Reserve is the official within the executive part of the Department of the Army who, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff, is responsible for justification and execution of the personnel, operation and maintenance, and construction budgets for the Army Reserve. As such, the Chief of Army Reserve is the director and functional manager of appropriations made for the Army Reserve in those areas.
  (e) T4Full Time Support ProgramK.–The Chief of Army Reserve manages, with respect to the Army Reserve, the personnel program of the Department of Defense known as the Full Time Support Program.
  (f) T4Annual ReportK.–(1) The Chief of Army Reserve shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, through the Secretary of the Army, an annual report on the state of the Army Reserve and the ability of the Army Reserve to meet its missions. The report shall be prepared in conjunction with the Chief of Staff of the Army and may be submitted in classified and unclassified versions.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense shall transmit the annual report of the Chief of Army Reserve under paragraph (1) to Congress, together with such comments on the report as the Secretary considers appropriate. The report shall be transmitted at the same time each year that the annual report of the Secretary under section 113 of this title is submitted to Congress.
