  (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), the commissioned grade in which a person credited with service under section 3353 of this title is originally appointed as a reserve officer of the Army (based on the service credited under that section) shall be determined as follows:
    (1) For persons with less than three years of service–second lieutenant.
    (2) For persons with at least three, but less than seven, years of service–first lieutenant.
    (3) For persons with at least seven, but less than 14, years of service–captain.
    (4) For persons with at least 14, but less than 21, years of service–major.
    (5) For persons with at least 21 years of service–lieutenant colonel.
    (6) For persons with at least 23 years of service–lieutenant colonel or colonel, as the Secretary of the Army determines.
  (b) In the case of a person who is originally appointed as a reserve officer in the Medical Corps of the Army during the period beginning on October 1, 1983, and ending on September 30, 1995, and who is credited with service under section 3353 of this title, the commissioned grade in which that person is appointed (based on the service credited under that section) shall be determined as follows:
    (1) For persons with at least four, but less than 14, years of service–captain.
    (2) For persons with at least 14, but less than 21, years of service–major.
    (3) For persons with at least 21 years of service–lieutenant colonel.
    (4) For persons with at least 23 years of service–lieutenant colonel or colonel, as the Secretary of the Army determines.
  (c) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a person who is originally appointed as a reserve officer of the Army and who is a former commissioned officer may be appointed in the reserve grade equivalent to the grade held by that person when discharged or separated and may be credited with time in that grade for promotion purposes equal to the time in grade held by that person when discharged or separated.
