  (a) Except as provided in section 3383(b) of this title and section 309 of title 32, an officer in the reserve grade of second lieutenant may not be promoted or federally recognized in the next higher reserve grade until he completes three years of service computed under section 3360(b) of this title.
  (b) An officer in a reserve grade above second lieutenant may not be considered for promotion, or examined for Federal recognition in the next higher reserve grade, until he completes the following number of years of service computed under section 3360(b) of this title:
    (1) First lieutenant–two years.
    (2) Captain–four years.
    (3) Major–four years.
    (4) Lieutenant colonel–three years.
    (5) Colonel–two years.
    (6) Brigadier general–two years.
       This subsection does not apply to the adjutant general or assistant adjutants general of a State or Territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
  (c) An officer may not be considered by a selection board for promotion under this chapter more than two years before the date on which it is anticipated that he will be promoted if recommended by the selection board.
  (d) A promotion under this chapter may be made effective before, on, or after the date on which it is made. The officer concerned is entitled to pay, allowances, and any other benefits provided by law for the grade to which he is promoted from the effective date of the promotion.
  (e) The Secretary of the Army may delay the promotion of a reserve commissioned officer who is under investigation or against whom proceedings of a court-martial or board of officers are pending, until the investigation or proceedings are completed.
  (f) On the basis of the results of an investigation or proceedings of a court-martial or board of officers, the Secretary may remove from a recommended list the name of any officer whom he considers to be not qualified for promotion. An officer in an active status whose name is so removed from a recommended list, shall be treated, for the purposes of section 3368 of this title, as if he had been considered but not recommended for promotion.
  (g) Promotions of reserve commissioned officers of each special branch shall be made from reserve commissioned officers assigned to that branch. Promotions of reserve commissioned officers in any other branch shall be made from reserve commissioned officers who are not assigned to a special branch.
