  (a) Without regard to vacancies, each officer of the Army Reserve in the reserve grade of first lieutenant, captain, or major, who is in an active status, who is not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, and who, while holding that grade, has not been considered by a selection board under this section or section 3367 of this title, and each reserve officer in such a grade who is on active duty (other than for training), and who has not been so considered, shall be considered for promotion to the next higher reserve grade far enough in advance of the date on which he will complete the service prescribed in columns 2 and 3 of the following table that, if recommended, he may be promoted effective on the date on which he will complete that service:
      h1Column 1h2Current reserve gradeh1Column 2h2Years of service computed under sec. 3360(b) of this titleh1Column 3h2Years of service computed under sec. 3360(c) of this titlej
     First lieutenantD4D6
     CaptainD7D12
     MajorD7D17
  (b) Without regard to vacancies, each officer of an Army Reserve unit organized to serve as a unit, and each officer of the Army National Guard of the United States, who holds the reserve grade of first lieutenant, captain, or major and who has not been considered by a selection board under this section or section 3367 of this title, for promotion to the next higher reserve grade, shall be so considered far enough in advance of the date upon which he will complete the service prescribed in columns 2 and 3 of the table in subsection (a) that, if recommended, he may be promoted effective on the date on which he will complete that service.
  (c) An officer recommended for promotion under this section may be promoted to fill a vacancy within the distribution of officers not assigned to units at any time. If not sooner promoted, he shall be promoted, effective as of the date on which he completes the service prescribed in columns 2 and 3 of the table in subsection (a), without regard to vacancies. Each officer of the Army National Guard of the United States who is recommended by a selection board for promotion under this section, and who, before the date on which he would be promoted under this section, is appointed to the next higher grade to fill a vacancy in the Army National Guard and is federally recognized in that grade, shall be promoted to that reserve grade effective as of the date on which he is so recognized. If he is not so appointed to the next higher grade in the Army National Guard and federally recognized in that Grade, he shall, effective as of the date of his promotion under this section, have his Federal recognition terminated and be transferred to the Army Reserve. Each officer of an Army Reserve unit organized to serve as a unit who is promoted under this section shall, effective as of the date of that promotion, be transferred from his unit unless, upon his promotion, he fills a vacancy in that unit.
  (d) If an officer in the reserve grade of first lieutenant, captain, or major becomes subject to this section upon transfer from an inactive status, upon transfer from the Army National Guard of the United States, or upon release from a unit of the Army Reserve, and after completing the service necessary for consideration under subsection (a), he shall be considered by the next appropriate selection board. If recommended by that board, he shall be promoted on the later of the following dates–
    (1) the date on which the board reports its recommendations; or
    (2) the date on which he completes the service prescribed in column 2 of the table in subsection (a).
  (e) A selection board considering officers under this section shall use one of the following methods of selection, as directed by the Secretary of the Army;
    (1) Recommend those officers whose names have been referred to it whom it considers to be fully qualified for promotion, and report those whom it considers not to be so qualified.
    (2) Recommend a number specified by him whom it considers to be the best qualified of those officers whose names have been referred to it.
       If the method prescribed in clause (2) is used in considering officers for promotion to the grade of captain, major, or lieutenant colonel, the number recommended by the selection board must be at least 80 percent of those listed for consideration for the first time.
  (f) A reserve officer whose name is on a zone of consideration list for consideration for promotion under this section and who is serving in, or has been recommended for promotion to, a temporary grade that is equal to or higher than the grade for which he is to be considered under this section, may not be considered under this section, but shall be considered to have been recommended for promotion and shall be promoted when he completes the service prescribed by column 2 of the table in subsection (a) for the grade concerned.
     [(g) Repealed. Pub. L. 90–130, § 1(11)(A), Nov. 8, 1967, 81 Stat. 375.]
  (h) If an officer of the Army National Guard of the United States is found qualified for promotion under this section, section 3390 of this title applies in place of the examination for Federal recognition in the grade for which found qualified.
