  (a) Whenever the Secretary of the Army determines that, within the distribution of officers not assigned to units, there are existing or anticipated vacancies in the reserve grade of colonel, he may convene a selection board to consider and recommend, to fill those vacancies, reserve officers who are in an active status and who are not assigned to units organized to serve as units, subject to section 3390 of this title, reserve officers who are on active duty (other than for training), officers of any unit of the Army Reserve organized to serve as a unit, and officers of the Army National Guard of the United States.
  (b) The Secretary shall prescribe for each zone of consideration list established under section 3364 of this title the amount of service computed under section 3360(b) of this title that an officer of the branch concerned must have to be placed on it for consideration under this section. So far as practicable, the amount of service prescribed shall correspond to that which an officer of the Regular Army in the same branch must have for consideration for promotion to the same grade. The Secretary shall require that each officer who is in an active status, who is not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, and who has the prescribed service computed under that section, be placed on that list. Officers of any unit of the Army Reserve organized to serve as a unit, and any officer of the Army National Guard of the United States, who have the prescribed service computed under that section, shall also be placed on that list. He shall prescribe the number to be recommended for promotion from each list.
  (c) A selection board considering officers under this section shall recommend the prescribed number of officers whom it considers to be the best qualified.
  (d) Subject to section 3380 of this title, an officer recommended for promotion under this section may be promoted whenever there is a vacancy, but it is not mandatory that the authorized number be maintained in any grade. Each officer of the Army National Guard of the United States who is recommended for promotion under this section and who, before the date on which he would be promoted under this section, is appointed in the next higher grade to fill a vacancy in the Army National Guard and is federally recognized in that grade shall be promoted to that reserve grade effective as of the date on which he is so recognized. If he is not so appointed in the next higher grade in the Army National Guard and federally recognized in that grade, he shall, effective as of the date of the promotion under this section, have his Federal recognition terminated and be transferred to the Army Reserve. An officer of the Army National Guard of the United States may decline a promotion under this section if the governor or other appropriate authority of the State, Territory, or Puerto Rico, or the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, whichever is concerned, approves that action. If an officer of the Army National Guard of the United States so declines a promotion, his name shall be removed from the recommended list. Each officer of an Army Reserve unit organized to serve as a unit who is promoted under this section shall, effective as of the date of that promotion, be transferred from his unit unless upon his promotion he fills a vacancy in that unit. An officer of a unit of the Army Reserve organized to serve as a unit may decline a promotion under this section if the Secretary of the Army, or an officer designated by him, approves that action as being in the best interest of the Army. If an officer of a unit of the Army Reserve so declines a promotion, his name shall be removed from the recommended list.
  (e) If an officer of the Army National Guard of the United States is found qualified for promotion under this section, section 3390 of this title applies in place of the examination for Federal recognition in the grade for which found qualified.
