  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program to be known as the ””Civil-Military Cooperative Action Program““. Under the program, the Secretary may, in accordance with other applicable law, use the skills, capabilities, and resources of the armed forces to assist civilian efforts to meet the domestic needs of the United States.
  (b) T4Program ObjectivesK.–The program shall have the following objectives:
    (1) To enhance individual and unit training and morale in the armed forces through meaningful community involvement of the armed forces.
    (2) To encourage cooperation between civilian and military sectors of society in addressing domestic needs.
    (3) To advance equal opportunity.
    (4) To enrich the civilian economy of the United States through education, training, and transfer of technological advances.
    (5) To improve the environment and economic and social conditions.
    (6) To provide opportunities for disadvantaged citizens of the United States.
  (c) T4Advisory CouncilsK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall encourage the establishment of advisory councils on civil-military cooperation at the regional, State, and local levels, as appropriate, in order to obtain recommendations for projects and activities under the program and guidance for the program from persons who are knowledgeable about regional, State, and local conditions and needs.
  (2) The advisory councils should include officials from relevant military organizations, representatives of appropriate local, State, and Federal agencies, representatives of civic and social service organizations, business representatives, and labor representatives.
  (3) The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to such councils.
  (d) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations governing the provision of assistance under the program. The regulations shall include the following:
    (1) Rules governing the types of assistance that may be provided.
    (2) Procedures governing the delivery of assistance that ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that such assistance is provided in conjunction with, rather than separate from, civilian efforts.
    (3) Procedures for appropriate coordination with civilian officials to ensure that the assistance–
      (A) meets a valid need; and
      (B) does not duplicate other available public services.
    (4) Procedures for the provision of assistance in a manner that does not compete with the private sector.
    (5) Procedures to minimize the extent to which Department of Defense resources are applied exclusively to the program.
    (6) Standards to ensure that assistance is provided under this section in a manner that is consistent with the military mission of the units of the armed forces involved in providing the assistance.
  (e) T4Construction of ProvisionK.–Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing–
    (1) the use of the armed forces for civilian law enforcement purposes; or
    (2) the use of Department of Defense personnel or resources for any program, project, or activity that is prohibited by law.
