  (a) T4Annual Reports RequiredK.–(1) Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit–
    (A) to the congressional committees specified in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) a report on the intelligence oversight activities of the Department of Defense during the previous calendar year insofar as such oversight activities relate to tactical intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the Department; and
    (B) to the congressional committees specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) a report on the intelligence oversight activities of the Department of Defense during the previous calendar year insofar as such oversight activities relate to intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the Department other than those specified in subparagraph (A).
  (2)    (A) The committees specified in this subparagraph are the following:
      (i) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
      (ii) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (B) The committees specified in this subparagraph are the following:
      (i) The Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
      (ii) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  (b) T4ElementsK.–Each report under subsection (a) shall include, for the calendar year covered by such report and with respect to oversight activities subject to coverage in that report, the following:
    (1) A description of any violation of law or of any Executive order or Presidential directive (including Executive Order No. 12333) that comes to the attention of any General Counsel or Inspector General within the Department of Defense, or the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, and a description of the actions taken by such official with respect to such activity.
    (2) A description of the results of intelligence oversight inspections undertaken by each of the following:
      (A) The Office of the Secretary of Defense.
      (B) Each military department.
      (C) Each combat support agency.
      (D) Each field operating agency.
    (3) A description of any changes made in any program for the intelligence oversight activities of the Department of Defense, including any training program.
    (4) A description of any changes made in any published directive or policy memoranda on the intelligence or intelligence-related activities of–
      (A) any military department;
      (B) any combat support agency; or
      (C) any field operating agency.
  (c) T4DefinitionsK.–In this section:
    (1) The term ””intelligence oversight activities of the Department of Defense““ refers to any activity undertaken by an agency, element, or component of the Department of Defense to ensure compliance with regard to requirements or instructions on the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the Department under law or any Executive order or Presidential directive (including Executive Order No. 12333).
    (2) The term ””combat support agency““ has the meaning given that term in section 193(f) of this title.
    (3) The term ””field operating agency““ means a specialized subdivision of the Department of Defense that carries out activities under the operational control of the Department.
