  (a) T4National Security MissionsK.–(1) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall, in support of the national security objectives of the United States, provide geospatial intelligence consisting of the following:
    (A) Imagery.
    (B) Imagery intelligence.
    (C) Geospatial information.
  (2)    (A) As directed by the Director of National Intelligence, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall develop a system to facilitate the analysis, dissemination, and incorporation of likenesses, videos, and presentations produced by ground-based platforms, including handheld or clandestine photography taken by or on behalf of human intelligence collection organizations or available as open-source information, into the National System for Geospatial Intelligence.
    (B) The authority provided by this paragraph does not include authority for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to manage tasking of handheld or clandestine photography taken by or on behalf of human intelligence collection organizations.
  (3) Geospatial intelligence provided in carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be timely, relevant, and accurate.
  (b) T4Navigation InformationK.–The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall improve means of navigating vessels of the Navy and the merchant marine by providing, under the authority of the Secretary of Defense, accurate and inexpensive nautical charts, sailing directions, books on navigation, and manuals of instructions for the use of all vessels of the United States and of navigators generally.
  (c) T4Maps, Charts, EtcK.–The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall prepare and distribute maps, charts, books, and geodetic products as authorized under subchapter II of this chapter.
  (d) T4National MissionsK.–The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency also has national missions as specified in section 110(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 404e(a)).
  (e) T4SystemsK.–The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency may, in furtherance of a mission of the Agency, design, develop, deploy, operate, and maintain systems related to the processing and dissemination of imagery intelligence and geospatial information that may be transferred to, accepted or used by, or used on behalf of–
    (1) the armed forces, including any combatant command, component of a combatant command, joint task force, or tactical unit; or
    (2) any other department or agency of the United States.
