  (a) T4Support AuthorizedK.–The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency may provide support in accordance with this section to the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. The Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency may accept support provided under this section.
  (b) T4Administrative and Contract ServicesK.–(1) In furtherance of the national intelligence effort, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency may provide administrative and contract services to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency as if that agency were an organizational element of the Central Intelligence Agency.
  (2) Services provided under paragraph (1) may include the services of security police. For purposes of section 15 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403T3oK), an installation of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency that is provided security police services under this section shall be considered an installation of the Central Intelligence Agency.
  (3) Support provided under this subsection shall be provided under terms and conditions agreed upon by the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
  (c) T4Detail of PersonnelK.–The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency may detail personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency indefinitely to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency without regard to any limitation on the duration of interagency details of Federal Government personnel.
  (d) T4Reimbursable or Nonreimbursable SupportK.–Support under this section may be provided and accepted on either a reimbursable basis or a nonreimbursable basis.
  (e) T4Authority To Transfer FundsK.–(1) The Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency may transfer funds available for that agency to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency for the Central Intelligence Agency.
  (2) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency–
    (A) may accept funds transferred under paragraph (1); and
    (B) shall expend such funds, in accordance with the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et seq.), to provide administrative and contract services or detail personnel to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency under this section.
