  (a) T4In GeneralK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense shall carry out four quadrennial surveys (each in a separate year) in accordance with this section to identify and assess racial and ethnic issues and discrimination, and to identify and assess gender issues and discrimination, among members of the armed forces. Each such survey shall be conducted so as to identify and assess the extent (if any) of activity among such members that may be seen as so-called ””hate group““ activity.
  (2) The four surveys shall be as follows:
    (A) To identify and assess racial and ethnic issues and discrimination among members of the armed forces serving on active duty.
    (B) To identify and assess racial and ethnic issues and discrimination among members of the armed forces in the reserve components.
    (C) To identify and assess gender issues and discrimination among members of the armed forces serving on active duty.
    (D) To identify and assess gender issues and discrimination members of the armed forces in the reserve components.
  (3) The surveys under this section relating to racial and ethnic issues and discrimination shall be known as the ””Armed Forces Workplace and Equal Opportunity Surveys““. The surveys under this section relating to gender issues and discrimination shall be known as the ””Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Relations Surveys““.
  (4) Each survey under this section shall be conducted separately from any other survey conducted by the Department of Defense.
  (b) T4Armed Forces Workplace and Equal Opportunity SurveysK.–The Armed Forces Workplace and Equal Opportunity Surveys shall be conducted so as to solicit information on racial and ethnic issues, including issues relating to harassment and discrimination, and the climate in the armed forces for forming professional relationships among members of the armed forces of various racial and ethnic groups. Both such surveys shall be conducted so as to solicit information on the following:
    (1) Indicators of positive and negative trends for professional and personal relationships among members of all racial and ethnic groups.
    (2) The effectiveness of Department of Defense policies designed to improve relationships among all racial and ethnic groups.
    (3) The effectiveness of current processes for complaints on and investigations into racial and ethnic discrimination.
  (c) T4Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Relations SurveysK.–The Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Relations Surveys shall be conducted so as to solicit information on gender issues, including issues relating to gender-based harassment and discrimination, and the climate in the armed forces for forming professional relationships between male and female members of the armed forces. Both such surveys shall be conducted so as to solicit information on the following:
    (1) Indicators of positive and negative trends for professional and personal relationships between male and female members of the armed forces.
    (2) The effectiveness of Department of Defense policies designed to improve professional relationships between male and female members of the armed forces.
    (3) The effectiveness of current processes for complaints on and investigations into gender-based discrimination.
  (d) T4Surveys To Be Conducted in Different YearsK.–Each of the four quadrennial surveys conducted under this section shall be conducted in a different year from any other survey conducted under this section, so that one such survey is conducted during each year.
  (e) T4Reports to CongressK.–Upon the completion of a survey under this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the survey.
  (f) T4Inapplicability to Coast GuardK.–This section does not apply to the Coast Guard.
