  (a) T4Quarterly Reports RequiredK.–Not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar-year quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report regarding military readiness. The report for a quarter shall contain the information required by subsections (b), (d), (e), and (f).
  (b) T4Readiness Problems and Remedial ActionsK.–Each report shall specifically describe–
    (1) each readiness problem and deficiency identified using the assessments considered under subsection (c);
    (2) planned remedial actions; and
    (3) the key indicators and other relevant information related to each identified problem and deficiency.
  (c) T4Consideration of Readiness AssessmentsK.–The information required under subsection (b) to be included in the report for a quarter shall be based on readiness assessments that are provided during that quarter–
    (1) to any council, committee, or other body of the Department of Defense–
      (A) that has responsibility for readiness oversight; and
      (B) whose membership includes at least one civilian officer in the Office of the Secretary of Defense at the level of Assistant Secretary of Defense or higher;
    (2) by senior civilian and military officers of the military departments and the commanders of the unified and specified commands; and
    (3) as part of any regularly established process of periodic readiness reviews for the Department of Defense as a whole.
  (d) T4Comprehensive Readiness Indicators for Active ComponentsK.–Each report shall also include information regarding each of the active components of the armed forces (and an evaluation of such information) with respect to each of the following readiness indicators:
    (1) T4Personnel strength.–
      (A) Personnel status, including the extent to which members of the armed forces are serving in positions outside of their military occupational specialty, serving in grades other than the grades for which they are qualified, or both.
      (B) Historical data and projected trends in personnel strength and status.
    (2) T4Personnel turbulence.–
      (A) Recruit quality.
      (B) Borrowed manpower.
      (C) Personnel stability.
    (3) T4Other personnel matters.–
      (A) Personnel morale.
      (B) Recruiting status.
    (4) T4Training.–
      (A) Training unit readiness and proficiency.
      (B) Operations tempo.
      (C) Training funding.
      (D) Training commitments and deployments.
    (5) T4Logistics–equipment fill.–
      (A) Deployed equipment.
      (B) Equipment availability.
      (C) Equipment that is not mission capable.
      (D) Age of equipment.
      (E) Condition of nonpacing items.
    (6) T4Logistics–equipment maintenance.–
      (A) Maintenance backlog.
    (7) T4Logistics–supply.–
      (A) Availability of ordnance and spares.
      (B) Status of prepositioned equipment.
  (e) T4Unit Readiness IndicatorsK.–Each report shall also include information regarding the readiness of each active component unit of the armed forces at the battalion, squadron, or an equivalent level (or a higher level) that received a readiness rating of C–3 (or below) for any month of the calendar-year quarter covered by the report. With respect to each such unit, the report shall separately provide the following information:
    (1) The unit designation and level of organization.
    (2) The overall readiness rating for the unit for the quarter and each month of the quarter.
    (3) The resource area or areas (personnel, equipment and supplies on hand, equipment condition, or training) that adversely affected the unit“s readiness rating for the quarter.
    (4) The reasons why the unit received a readiness rating of C–3 (or below).
  (f) T4Readiness of National Guard to Perform Civil Support MissionsK.–(1) Each report shall also include an assessment of the readiness of the National Guard to perform tasks required to support the National Response Plan for support to civil authorities.
  (2) Any information in an assessment under this subsection that is relevant to the National Guard of a particular State shall also be made available to the Governor of that State.
  (3) The Secretary shall ensure that each State Governor has an opportunity to provide to the Secretary an independent evaluation of that State“s National Guard, which the Secretary shall include with each assessment submitted under this subsection.
  (g) T4Classification of ReportsK.–A report under this section shall be submitted in unclassified form. To the extent the Secretary of Defense determines necessary, the report may also be submitted in classified form.
