  (a) T4Biennial AssessmentsK.–(1) For each even-numbered year, each covered official shall assess the safety, security, reliability, sustainability, performance, and military effectiveness of the systems described in paragraph (2) for which such official has responsibility.
  (2) The systems described in this paragraph are the following:
    (A) Each type of delivery platform for nuclear weapons.
    (B) The nuclear command and control system.
  (b) T4Biennial ReportK.–(1) Not later than December 1 of each even-numbered year, each covered official shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the Nuclear Weapons Council established by section 179 of this title a report on the assessments conducted under subsection (a).
  (2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
    (A) The results of the assessment.
    (B) An identification and discussion of any capability gaps or shortfalls with respect to the systems described in subsection (a)(2) covered under the assessment.
    (C) An identification and discussion of any risks with respect to meeting mission or capability requirements.
    (D) In the case of an assessment by the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, if the Commander identifies any deficiency with respect to a nuclear weapons delivery platform covered under the assessment, a discussion of the relative merits of any other nuclear weapons delivery platform type or compensatory measure that would accomplish the mission of such nuclear weapons delivery platform.
    (E) An identification and discussion of any matter having an adverse effect on the capability of the covered official to accurately determine the matters covered by the assessment.
  (c) T4Report to President and CongressK.–(1) Not later than March 1 of each year following a year for which a report under subsection (b) is submitted, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the President a report containing–
    (A) each report under subsection (b) submitted during the previous year, as originally submitted to the Secretary;
    (B) any comments that the Secretary considers appropriate with respect to each such report;
    (C) any conclusions that the Secretary considers appropriate with respect to the safety, security, reliability, sustainability, performance, or military effectiveness of the systems described in subsection (a)(2); and
    (D) any other information that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (2) Not later than March 15 of each year during which a report under paragraph (1) is submitted, the President shall transmit to the congressional defense committees the report submitted to the President under paragraph (1), including any comments the President considers appropriate.
  (3) Each report under this subsection may be in classified form if the Secretary of Defense determines it necessary.
  (d) T4Covered Official DefinedK.–In this section, the term ””covered official““ means–
    (1) the Commander of the United States Strategic Command;
    (2) the Director of the Strategic Systems Program of the Navy; and
    (3) the Commander of the Global Strike Command of the Air Force.
