  (a) There is in the Department of the Navy an Office of the Secretary of the Navy. The function of the Office is to assist the Secretary of the Navy in carrying out his responsibilities.
  (b) The Office of the Secretary of the Navy is composed of the following:
    (1) The Under Secretary of the Navy.
    (2) The Assistant Secretaries of the Navy.
    (3) The General Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
    (4) The Judge Advocate General of the Navy.
    (5) The Naval Inspector General.
    (6) The Chief of Legislative Affairs.
    (7) The Chief of Naval Research.
    (8) Such other offices and officials as may be established by law or as the Secretary of the Navy may establish or designate.
  (c)    (1) The Office of the Secretary of the Navy shall have sole responsibility within the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, Marine Corps, for the following functions:
      (A) Acquisition.
      (B) Auditing.
      (C) Comptroller (including financial management).
      (D) Information management.
      (E) Inspector General.
      (F) Legislative affairs.
      (G) Public affairs.
    (2) The Secretary of the Navy shall establish or designate a single office or other entity within the Office of the Secretary of the Navy to conduct each function specified in paragraph (1). No office or other entity may be established or designated within the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations or the Headquarters, Marine Corps, to conduct any of the functions specified in paragraph (1).
    (3) The Secretary shall–
      (A) prescribe the relationship of each office or other entity established or designated under paragraph (2)–
        (i) to the Chief of Naval Operations and the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations; and
        (ii) to the Commandant of the Marine Corps and the Headquarters, Marine Corps; and
      (B) ensure that each such office or entity provides the Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Marine Corps such staff support as each considers necessary to perform his duties and responsibilities.
    (4) The vesting in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy of the responsibility for the conduct of a function specified in paragraph (1) does not preclude other elements of the executive part of the Department of the Navy (including the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and the Headquarters, Marine Corps) from providing advice or assistance to the Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Marine Corps or otherwise participating in that function within the executive part of the Department under the direction of the office assigned responsibility for that function in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy.
    (5)      (A) The head of the office or other entity established or designated by the Secretary to conduct the auditing function shall have at least five years of professional experience in accounting or auditing. The position shall be considered to be a career reserved position as defined in section 3132(a)(8) of title 5.
      (B) The position of regional director within such office or entity, and any other position within such office or entity the primary responsibilities of which are to carry out supervisory functions, may not be held by a member of the armed forces on active duty.
  (d)    (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Office of the Secretary of the Navy shall have sole responsibility within the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, Marine Corps, for the function of research and development.
    (2) The Secretary of the Navy may assign to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and the Headquarters, Marine Corps, responsibility for those aspects of the function of research and development relating to military requirements and test and evaluation.
    (3) The Secretary shall establish or designate a single office or other entity within the Office of the Secretary of the Navy to conduct the function specified in paragraph (1).
    (4) The Secretary shall–
      (A) prescribe the relationship of the office or other entity established or designated under paragraph (3)–
        (i) to the Chief of Naval Operations and the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations; and
        (ii) to the Commandant of the Marine Corps and the Headquarters, Marine Corps; and
      (B) ensure that each such office or entity provides the Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Marine Corps such staff support as each considers necessary to perform his duties and responsibilities.
  (e) The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, Marine Corps, do not duplicate specific functions for which the Secretary has assigned responsibility to another of such offices.
  (f)    (1) The total number of members of the armed forces and civilian employees of the Department of the Navy assigned or detailed to permanent duty in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, Marine Corps, may not exceed 2,866.
    (2) Not more than 1,720 officers of the Navy and Marine Corps on the active-duty list may be assigned or detailed to permanent duty in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, Marine Corps.
    (3) The total number of general and flag officers assigned or detailed to permanent duty in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, Marine Corps, may not exceed 74.
    (4) The limitations in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) do not apply in time of war or during a national emergency declared by the President or Congress. The limitation in paragraph (2) does not apply whenever the President determines that it is in the national interest to increase the number of officers assigned or detailed to permanent duty in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, or the Headquarters, Marine Corps.
