  (a)    (1) There is a Commandant of the Marine Corps, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Commandant shall be appointed for a term of four years from officers on the active-duty list of the Marine Corps not below the grade of colonel. He serves at the pleasure of the President. In time of war or during a national emergency declared by Congress, he may be reappointed for a term of not more than four years.
    (2) The President may appoint an officer as Commandant of the Marine Corps only if–
      (A) the officer has had significant experience in joint duty assignments; and
      (B) such experience includes at least one full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment (as defined in section 664(f) of this title) as a general officer.
    (3) The President may waive paragraph (2) in the case of an officer if the President determines such action is necessary in the national interest.
  (b) The Commandant of the Marine Corps, while so serving, has the grade of general without vacating his permanent grade.
     [(c) Repealed. Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title V, § 502(c), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 293.]
  (d) Except as otherwise prescribed by law and subject to section 5013(f) of this title, the Commandant performs his duties under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Navy and is directly responsible to the Secretary.
  (e) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Navy, the Commandant shall–
    (1) preside over the Headquarters, Marine Corps;
    (2) transmit the plans and recommendations of the Headquarters, Marine Corps, to the Secretary and advise the Secretary with regard to such plans and recommendations;
    (3) after approval of the plans or recommendations of the Headquarters, Marine Corps, by the Secretary, act as the agent of the Secretary in carrying them into effect;
    (4) exercise supervision, consistent with the authority assigned to commanders of unified or specified combatant commands under chapter 6 of this title, over such of the members and organizations of the Marine Corps and the Navy as the Secretary determines;
    (5) perform the duties prescribed for him by section 171 of this title and other provisions of law; and
    (6) perform such other military duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as are assigned to him by the President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of the Navy.
  (f)    (1) The Commandant shall also perform the duties prescribed for him as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 151 of this title.
    (2) To the extent that such action does not impair the independence of the Commandant in the performance of his duties as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commandant shall inform the Secretary regarding military advice rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting the Department of the Navy.
    (3) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Commandant shall keep the Secretary of the Navy fully informed of significant military operations affecting the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary.
