  (a) T4Establishment of Office: Chief of Navy ReserveK.–There is in the executive part of the Department of the Navy, on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations, an Office of the Navy Reserve, which is headed by a Chief of Navy Reserve. The Chief of Navy Reserve–
    (1) is the principal adviser on Navy Reserve matters to the Chief of Naval Operations; and
    (2) is the commander of the Navy Reserve Force.
  (b) T4AppointmentK.–(1) The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint the Chief of Navy Reserve from flag officers of the Navy (as defined in section 5001(1)) who have had at least 10 years of commissioned service.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense may not recommend an officer to the President for appointment as Chief of Navy Reserve unless the officer–
    (A) is recommended by the Secretary of the Navy; and
    (B) is determined by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in accordance with criteria and as a result of a process established by the Chairman, to have significant joint duty experience.
  (3) An officer on active duty for service as the Chief of Navy Reserve shall be counted for purposes of the grade limitations under sections 525 and 526 of this title.
  (4) Until December 31, 2006, the Secretary of Defense may waive subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) with respect to the appointment of an officer as Chief of Navy Reserve if the Secretary of the Navy requests the waiver and, in the judgment of the Secretary of Defense–
    (A) the officer is qualified for service in the position; and
    (B) the waiver is necessary for the good of the service.
       Any such waiver shall be made on a case-by-case basis.
  (c) T4Term; Reappointment; GradeK.–(1) The Chief of Navy Reserve is appointed for a term determined by the Chief of Naval Operations, normally four years, but may be removed for cause at any time. An officer serving as Chief of Navy Reserve may be reappointed for one additional term of up to four years.
  (2) The Chief of Navy Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of vice admiral.
  (d) T4BudgetK.–The Chief of Navy Reserve is the official within the executive part of the Department of the Navy who, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations, is responsible for preparation, justification, and execution of the personnel, operation and maintenance, and construction budgets for the Navy Reserve. As such, the Chief of Navy Reserve is the director and functional manager of appropriations made for the Navy Reserve in those areas.
