  (a)    (1) There is a Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy who is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among judge advocates of the Navy and Marine Corps who have the qualifications prescribed for the Judge Advocate General. If an officer appointed as the Deputy Judge Advocate General holds a lower regular grade, the officer shall be appointed in the regular grade of rear admiral or major general, as appropriate.
    (2) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Navy, in selecting an officer for recommendation to the President for appointment as the Deputy Judge Advocate General, shall ensure that the officer selected is recommended by a board of officers that, insofar as practicable, is subject to the procedures applicable to selection boards convened under chapter 36 of this title.
  (b) An officer of the Judge Advocate General“s Corps who has the qualifications prescribed for the Judge Advocate General in section 5148(b) of this title may be detailed as Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy. While so serving, a judge advocate who holds a grade lower than rear admiral (lower half) shall hold the grade of rear admiral (lower half), if he is appointed to that grade by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. An officer who is retired while serving as Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy under this subsection or who, after serving at least twelve months as Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy, is retired after completion of that service while serving in a lower rank or grade, may, in the discretion of the President, be retired with the rank and grade of rear admiral (lower half). If he is retired as a rear admiral (lower half), he is entitled to the retired pay of that grade, unless entitled to higher pay under another provision of law.
  (c) A judge advocate of the Marine Corps who has the qualifications prescribed for the Judge Advocate General in section 5148(b) of this title may be detailed as Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy. While so serving, a judge advocate who holds a grade lower than brigadier general shall hold the grade of brigadier general, if he is appointed to that grade by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. An officer who is retired while serving as Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy under this subsection or who, after serving at least twelve months as Assistant Judge Advocate General of the Navy, is retired after completion of that service while serving in a lower rank or grade, may, in the discretion of the President, be retired with the rank and grade of brigadier general. If he is retired as a brigadier general, he is entitled to the retired pay of that grade, unless entitled to higher pay under another provision of law.
  (d) When there is a vacancy in the Office of the Judge Advocate General, or during the absence or disability of the Judge Advocate General, the Deputy Judge Advocate General shall perform the duties of the Judge Advocate General until a successor is appointed or the absence or disability ceases.
  (e) When subsection (d) cannot be complied with because of the absence or disability of the Deputy Judge Advocate General, the Assistant Judge Advocates General, in the order directed by the Secretary of the Navy, shall perform the duties of the Judge Advocate General.
