  (a) No appointment may be made in a grade above brigadier general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps if that appointment would result in more than 50 percent of the general officers of that armed force on active duty being in grades above brigadier general. No appointment may be made in a grade above rear admiral (lower half) in the Navy if that appointment would result in more than 50 percent of the flag officers of the Navy on active duty being in grades above rear admiral (lower half).
  (b)    (1) No appointment may be made in a grade above major general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps if that appointment would result in more than 15 percent of the general officers of that armed force on active duty being in grades above major general. In the case of the Army and Air Force, of the 15 percent of general officers on active duty who may be serving in grades above major general, not more than 25 percent may be serving in the grade of general.
    (2) No appointment may be made in a grade above rear admiral in the Navy if that appointment would result in more than 15 percent of the flag officers of the Navy on active duty being in grades above rear admiral. Of the 15 percent of flag officers on active duty who may be serving in grades above rear admiral, not more than 25 percent may be serving in the grade of admiral.
    (3) An officer while serving as Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or as Chief of Staff to the President, if serving in the grade of general or admiral, is in addition to the number that would otherwise be permitted for his armed force for that grade under paragraph (1) or (2).
    (4)      (A) An officer while serving in a position designated under subparagraph (B), if serving in the grade of lieutenant general or vice admiral, is in addition to the number that would otherwise be permitted for that officer“s armed force for that grade under paragraph (1) or (2).
      (B) The President, with the advice and assistance of the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, may designate not more than seven positions within the Joint Staff (provided for under section 155 of this title) as positions referred to in subparagraph (A). The authority of the President under the preceding sentence may not be delegated.
    (5)      (A) An officer while serving in a position specified in section 604(b) of this title, if serving in the grade of general or admiral, is in addition to the number that would otherwise be permitted for that officer“s armed force for officers serving on active duty in grades above major general or rear admiral, as the case may be, under the first sentence of paragraph (1) or (2), as applicable.
      (B) Subparagraph (A) does not apply in the case of an officer serving in such a position if the Secretary of Defense, when considering officers for recommendation to the President for appointment to fill the vacancy in that position which was filled by that officer, did not have a recommendation for that appointment from each Secretary of a military department who (pursuant to section 604(a) of this title) was required to make such a recommendation.
      (C) This paragraph shall cease to be effective at the end of September 30, 2000.
    (6) An officer while serving as Chief of the National Guard Bureau is in addition to the number that would otherwise be permitted for that officer“s armed force for officers serving on active duty in grades above major general under paragraph (1).
  (c)    (1) Subject to paragraph (3), the President–
      (A) may make appointments in the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps in the grade of lieutenant general and in the Army and Air Force in the grade of general in excess of the applicable numbers determined under subsection (b)(1), and may make appointments in the Marine Corps in the grade of general in addition to the Commandant and Assistant Commandant, if each such appointment is made in conjunction with an offsetting reduction under paragraph (2); and
      (B) may make appointments in the Navy in the grades of vice admiral and admiral in excess of the applicable numbers determined under subsection (b)(2) if each such appointment is made in conjunction with an offsetting reduction under paragraph (2).
    (2) For each appointment made under the authority of paragraph (1) in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps in the grade of lieutenant general or general or in the Navy in the grade of vice admiral or admiral, the number of appointments that may be made in the equivalent grade in one of the other armed forces (other than the Coast Guard) shall be reduced by one. When such an appointment is made, the President shall specify the armed force in which the reduction required by this paragraph is to be made.
    (3)      (A) The number of officers that may be serving on active duty in the grades of lieutenant general and vice admiral by reason of appointments made under the authority of paragraph (1) may not exceed the number equal to 10 percent of the total number of officers that may be serving on active duty in those grades in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps under subsection (b).
      (B) The number of officers that may be serving on active duty in the grades of general and admiral by reason of appointments made under the authority of paragraph (1) may not exceed the number equal to 15 percent of the total number of general officers and flag officers that may be serving on active duty in those grades in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
    (4) Upon the termination of the appointment of an officer in the grade of lieutenant general or vice admiral or general or admiral that was made in connection with an increase under paragraph (1) in the number of officers that may be serving on active duty in that armed force in that grade, the reduction made under paragraph (2) in the number of appointments permitted in such grade in another armed force by reason of that increase shall no longer be in effect.
  (d) An officer continuing to hold the grade of general or admiral under section 601(b)(4) of this title after relief from the position of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief of Staff of the Army, Chief of Naval Operations, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, or Commandant of the Marine Corps shall not be counted for purposes of this section.
