  (a) Unless otherwise entitled to a higher retired grade and subject to sections 689 and 1370 of this title, each member, other than a retired member, of the Navy or the Marine Corps shall, when retired, be advanced on the retired list to the highest officer grade in which he served satisfactorily under a temporary appointment as determined by the Secretary of the Navy.
  (b) Each member (other than a former member of the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve) who is advanced on the retired list under this section is (unless otherwise entitled to higher retired pay) entitled to retired pay determined in accordance with the following table. References in the table are to sections of this title.
      
     Retired pay base computed under section 1406(d) or 1407DRetired pay multiplier prescribed under section 1409 for the years of service that may be credited to him under section 1405.
  (c) Each former member of the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve who is advanced on the retired list under this section is entitled to retired pay determined in accordance with the following table. References in the table are to sections of this title.
      
     Retired pay base computed under section 1406(d) or 1407DRetired pay multiplier prescribed under section 1409 for the number of years of service creditable for his retainer pay at the time of retirement.
  (d) A member who is advanced on the retired list under this section from the grade of warrant officer, W–1, or from an enlisted grade to a commissioned grade, and who applies to the Secretary within three months after his advancement, shall, if the Secretary approves, be restored on the retired list to his former warrant officer or enlisted grade, as the case may be. A member who is restored to his former grade under this subsection is thereafter considered for all purposes as a warrant officer, W–1, or an enlisted member, as the case may be.
  (e) Retired pay computed under subsection (b) or (c), if not a multiple of $1, shall be rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.
