  (a)    (1) Upon receipt of the report of a selection board submitted to him under section 617(a) of this title, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall review the report to determine whether the board has acted contrary to law or regulation or to guidelines furnished the board under section 615(b) of this title. Following such review, unless the Secretary concerned makes a determination as described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall submit the report as required by subsection (b) or (c), as appropriate.
    (2) If, on the basis of a review of the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that the board acted contrary to law or regulation or to guidelines furnished the board under section 615(b) of this title, the Secretary shall return the report, together with a written explanation of the basis for such determination, to the board for further proceedings. Upon receipt of a report returned by the Secretary concerned under this paragraph, the selection board (or a subsequent selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title for the same grade and competitive category) shall conduct such proceedings as may be necessary in order to revise the report to be consistent with law, regulation, and such guidelines and shall resubmit the report, as revised, to the Secretary in accordance with section 617 of this title.
  (b)    (1) After completing the requirements of subsection (a), the Secretary concerned, in the case of the report of a selection board that considered officers who are serving, or have served, in joint duty assignments, shall submit the report to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    (2) The Chairman, in accordance with guidelines furnished to the Chairman by the Secretary of Defense, shall review the report for the purpose of determining if–
      (A) the selection board acted consistent with the guidelines of the Secretary of Defense under section 615(c) of this title to ensure that selection boards give appropriate consideration to the performance in joint duty assignments of officers who are serving, or have served, in such assignments; and
      (B) the selection board otherwise gave appropriate consideration to the performance in joint duty assignments of officers who are serving, or have served, in such assignments.
    (3) After reviewing the report, the Chairman shall return the report, with his determinations and comments, to the Secretary concerned.
    (4) If the Chairman determines that the board acted contrary to the guidelines of the Secretary of Defense under section 615(c) of this title or otherwise failed to give appropriate consideration to the performance of officers in joint duty assignments, the Secretary concerned may–
      (A) return the report, together with the Chairman“s determinations and comments, to the selection board (or a subsequent selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title for the same grade and competitive category) for further proceedings in accordance with subsection (a);
      (B) convene a special selection board in the manner provided for under section 628 of this title; or
      (C) take other appropriate action to satisfy the concerns of the Chairman.
    (5) If, after completion of all actions taken under paragraph (4), the Secretary concerned and the Chairman remain in disagreement with respect to the report of a selection board, the Secretary concerned shall indicate such disagreement, and the reasons for such disagreement, as part of his transmittal of the report of the selection board to the Secretary of Defense under subsection (c). Such transmittal shall include any comments submitted by the Chairman.
  (c)    (1) After his final review of the report of a selection board, the Secretary concerned shall submit the report, with his recommendations thereon, to the Secretary of Defense for transmittal to the President for his approval or disapproval. The Secretary of Defense shall, before transmitting the report of a selection board to the President, take appropriate action to resolve any disagreement between the Secretary concerned and the Chairman transmitted to him under subsection (b)(5). If the authority of the President under this paragraph to approve or disapprove the report of a selection board is delegated to the Secretary of Defense, it may not be redelegated except to an official in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
    (2) If the report of a selection board names an officer as having a record which indicates that the officer should be required to show cause for his retention on active duty, the Secretary concerned may provide for the review of the record of that officer as provided for under regulations prescribed under section 1181 of this title.
  (d) The name of an officer recommended for promotion by a selection board may be removed from the report of the selection board only by the President.
  (e) Upon approval by the President of the report of a selection board, the names of the officers recommended for promotion by the selection board (other than any name removed by the President) may be disseminated to the armed force concerned. If such names have not been sooner disseminated, such names (other than the name of any officer whose promotion the Senate failed to confirm) shall be promptly disseminated to the armed force concerned upon confirmation by the Senate.
  (f) Except as authorized or required by this section, proceedings of a selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title may not be disclosed to any person not a member of the board.
  (g) If the Secretary of a military department or the Secretary of Defense makes a recommendation under this section that the name of an officer be removed from a report of a selection board and the recommendation is accompanied by information that was not presented to that selection board, that information shall be made available to that officer. The officer shall then be afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit comments on that information to the officials making the recommendation and the officials reviewing the recommendation. If an eligible officer cannot be given access to such information because of its classification status, the officer shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be provided with an appropriate summary of the information.
