  (a) T4General RuleK.–The length of a joint duty assignment–
    (1) for general and flag officers shall be not less than two years; and
    (2) for other officers shall be not less than three years.
  (b) T4Waiver AuthorityK.–The Secretary of Defense may waive subsection (a) in the case of any officer.
  (c) T4Initial Assignment of Officers With Critical Occupational SpecialtiesK.–The Secretary may for purposes of section 661(c)(2) of this title authorize a joint duty assignment of less than the period prescribed by subsection (a), but not less than two years, without the requirement for a waiver under subsection (b) in the case of an officer–
    (1) who is nominated for the joint specialty;
    (2) who has a military occupational specialty designated under section 661(c)(2) of this title as a critical occupational specialty; and
    (3) for whom such joint duty assignment is the initial joint duty assignment.
  (d) T4Exclusions From Tour LengthK.–The Secretary of Defense may exclude the following service from the standards prescribed in subsection (a):
    (1) Service in a joint duty assignment in which the full tour of duty in the assignment is not completed by the officer because of–
      (A) retirement;
      (B) release from active duty;
      (C) suspension from duty under section 155(f)(2) or 164(g) of this title; or
      (D) a qualifying reassignment (as described in subsection (g)(4)).
    (2) Service in a joint duty assignment outside the United States or in Alaska or Hawaii which is less than the applicable standard prescribed in subsection (a).
    (3) Service in a joint duty assignment in a case in which–
      (A) the officer“s tour of duty in that assignment brings the officer“s cumulative service for purposes of subsection (f)(3) to the applicable standard prescribed in subsection (a); and
      (B) the length of time served in that assignment (in any case other than an assignment which is described in subsection (g)(4)(B)) was not less than two years.
  (e) T4Average Tour LengthsK.–(1) The Secretary shall ensure that the average length of joint duty assignments during any fiscal year, measured by the lengths of the joint duty assignments ending during that fiscal year, meets the standards prescribed in subsection (a).
  (2) In computing the average length of joint duty assignments for purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretary may exclude the following service:
    (A) Service described in subsection (c), except that not more than 12\1/2\ percent of all joint duty assignments shown on the list published pursuant to section 668(b)(2)(A) of this title may be so excluded in any year.
    (B) Service described in subsection (d).
    (C) Service described in subsection (f)(6), except that no more than 10 percent of all joint duty assignments shown on the list published pursuant to section 668(b)(2)(A) of this title may be so excluded in any year.
  (f) T4Full Tour of DutyK.–An officer shall be considered to have completed a full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment upon completion of any of the following:
    (1) A joint duty assignment that meets the standards prescribed in subsection (a).
    (2) A joint duty assignment under the circumstances described in subsection (c).
    (3) Cumulative service in joint duty assignments as described in subsection (g).
    (4) A joint duty assignment outside the United States or in Alaska or Hawaii for which the normal accompanied-by-dependents tour of duty is prescribed by regulation to be at least two years in length, if the officer serves in the assignment for a period equivalent to the accompanied-by-dependents tour length (except that not more than 6 percent of all joint duty assignments may be considered to be under this paragraph at any time).
    (5) A joint duty assignment with respect to which the Secretary of Defense has granted a waiver under subsection (b), but only in a case in which the Secretary determines that the service completed by that officer in that duty assignment shall be considered to be a full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment.
    (6) A second joint duty assignment that is less than the period required under subsection (a), but not less than two years, without regard to whether a waiver was granted for such assignment under subsection (b).
  (g) T4Cumulative CreditK.–(1) Cumulative service for purposes of subsection (f)(3) is service in joint duty assignments which totals in length not less than the applicable standard prescribed in subsection (a) and which includes at least one tour of duty in a joint duty assignment that–
    (A) was performed outside the United States or in Alaska or Hawaii; or
    (B) was terminated because of a qualifying reassignment (as described in paragraph (4)).
  (2) In computing cumulative service of an officer in joint duty assignments for purposes of paragraph (1), a tour of duty of the officer in a joint duty assignment other than a tour of duty specified in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) may not be counted unless the officer served at least two years in the assignment. The prohibition on counting certain tours of duty in the preceding sentence does not apply to a joint duty assignment which follows a reassignment described in paragraph (4)(B).
  (3) In computing the cumulative service of an officer in joint duty assignments for purposes of paragraph (1), a tour of duty in a joint duty assignment shall be excluded if the officer served less than 10 months in that assignment.
  (4) For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), a qualifying reassignment is a reassignment of an officer from a joint duty assignment–
    (A) for unusual personal reasons (including extreme hardship and medical conditions) beyond the control of the officer or the armed forces; or
    (B) to another joint duty assignment immediately after–
      (i) the officer was promoted to a higher grade if the reassignment was made because no joint duty assignment was available within the same organization that was commensurate with the officer“s new grade; or
      (ii) the officer“s position was eliminated in a reorganization.
  (h) T4Constructive CreditK.–(1) The Secretary of Defense may accord constructive credit in the case of an officer (other than a general or flag officer) who, for reasons of military necessity, is reassigned from a joint duty assignment within 60 days of meeting the tour length criteria prescribed in subsection (f)(1), (f)(2), (f)(4), or (g)(2). The amount of constructive service that may be credited to such officer shall be the amount sufficient for the completion of the applicable tour of duty requirement, but in no case more than 60 days.
  (2) For the purpose of computing under subsection (e) the average length of joint duty assignments during a fiscal year, the amount of any constructive service credited under this subsection with respect to a joint duty assignment to be counted in that computation shall be excluded.
  (3) This subsection shall not apply in the case of an officer who serves less than 10 months in the joint duty assignment.
    (i) T4Joint Duty Credit for Certain Joint Task Force AssignmentsK.–(1) In the case of an officer who completes service in a qualifying temporary joint task force assignment, the Secretary of Defense, with the advice of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, may (subject to the criteria prescribed under paragraph (4)) grant the officer–
      (A) credit for having completed a full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment; or
      (B) credit countable for determining cumulative service in joint duty assignments.
  (2)    (A) For purposes of paragraph (1), a qualifying temporary joint task force assignment of an officer is a temporary assignment, any part of which is performed by the officer on or after February 10, 1996–
      (i) to the headquarters staff of a United States joint task force that is part of a unified command or the United States element of the headquarters staff of a multinational force; and
      (ii) with respect to which the Secretary of Defense determines that service of the officer in that assignment is equivalent to that which would be gained by the officer in a joint duty assignment.
    (B) An officer may not be granted credit under this subsection unless the officer is recommended for such credit by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
  (3) Credit under paragraph (1) (including a determination under paragraph (2)(A)(ii) and a recommendation under paragraph (2)(B) with respect to such credit) may be granted only on a case-by-case basis in the case of an individual officer.
  (4) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe by regulation criteria for determining whether an officer may be granted credit under paragraph (1) with respect to service in a qualifying temporary joint task force assignment. The criteria shall apply uniformly among the armed forces and shall include the following requirements:
    (A) For an officer to be credited as having completed a full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment, the length of the officer“s service in the qualifying temporary joint task force assignment must meet the requirements of subsection (a) or (c).
    (B) For an officer to be credited with service for purposes of determining cumulative service in joint duty assignments, the officer must serve at least 90 consecutive days in the qualifying temporary joint task force assignment.
    (C) The service must be performed in support of a mission that is directed by the President or that is assigned by the President to United States forces in the joint task force involved.
    (D) The joint task force must be constituted or designated by the Secretary of Defense or by the commander of a combatant command or of another force.
    (E) The joint task force must conduct combat or combat-related operations in a unified action under joint or multinational command and control.
  (5) Officers for whom joint duty credit is granted pursuant to this subsection may not be taken into account for the purposes of any of the following provisions of this title: section 661(d)(1), section 662(a)(3), section 662(b), subsection (a) of this section, and paragraphs (7), (8), (9), (11), and (12) of section 667.
  (6) In the case of an officer credited with having completed a full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement in paragraph (1)(B) of section 661(c) of this title that the tour of duty in a joint duty assignment be performed after the officer completes a program of education referred to in paragraph (1)(A) of that section. The provisions of subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 661(c)(3) of this title shall apply to such a waiver in the same manner as to a waiver under subparagraph (A) of that section.
