   The Secretary of Defense shall include in the annual report of the Secretary to Congress under section 113(c) of this title, for the period covered by the report, the following information (which shall be shown for the Department of Defense as a whole and separately for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps):
  (1)    (A) The number of officers designated as a joint qualified officer.
    (B) The number of officers who meet the criteria for designation as a joint qualified officer, but were not selected, together with the reasons why.
    (C) A comparison of the number of officers who were designated as a joint qualified officer who had served in a Joint Duty Assignment List billet and completed Joint Professional Military Education Phase II, with the number designated as a joint qualified officer based on their aggregated joint experiences and completion of Joint Professional Military Education Phase II.
  (2) The number of officers designated as a joint qualified officer, shown by grade and branch or specialty and by education.
  (3) The promotion rate for officers designated as a joint qualified officer, compared with the promotion rate for other officers considered for promotion from within the promotion zone in the same pay grade and the same competitive category. A similar comparison will be made for officers both below the promotion zone and above the promotion zone.
  (4) The average length of tours of duty in joint duty assignments–
    (A) for general and flag officers, shown separately for assignments to the Joint Staff and other joint duty assignments; and
    (B) for other officers, shown separately for assignments to the Joint Staff and other joint duty assignments.
  (5) The number of times, in the case of each category of exclusion, that service in a joint duty assignment was excluded in computing the average length of joint duty assignments.
  (6)    (A) An analysis of the extent to which the Secretary of each military department is providing officers to fill that department“s share (as determined by law or by the Secretary of Defense) of Joint Staff and other joint duty assignments, including the reason for any significant failure by a military department to fill its share of such positions and a discussion of the actions being taken to correct the shortfall.
    (B) An assessment of the extent to which the Secretary of each military department is assigning personnel to joint duty assignments in accordance with this chapter and the policies, procedures, and practices established by the Secretary of Defense under section 661(a) of this title.
  (7) The number of times a waiver authority was exercised under this chapter (or under any other provision of law which permits the waiver of any requirement relating to joint duty assignments) and in the case of each such authority–
    (A) whether the authority was exercised for a general or flag officer;
    (B) an analysis of the reasons for exercising the authority; and
    (C) the number of times in which action was taken without exercise of the waiver authority compared with the number of times waiver authority was exercised (in the case of each waiver authority under this chapter or under any other provision of law which permits the waiver of any requirement relating to joint duty assignments).
  (8) The number of officers in the grade of captain (or in the case of the Navy, lieutenant) and above certified at each level of joint qualification as established in regulation and policy by the Secretary of Defense with the advice of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Such numbers shall be reported by service and grade of the officer.
  (9) With regard to the principal courses of instruction for Joint Professional Military Education Level II, the number of officers graduating from each of the following:
    (A) The Joint Forces Staff College.
    (B) The National Defense University.
    (C) Senior Service Schools.
  (10) Such other information and comparative data as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate to demonstrate the performance of the Department of Defense and the performance of each military department in carrying out this chapter.
