  (a) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, a retired member of the Regular Army, Regular Navy, Regular Air Force, or Regular Marine Corps, a member of the Retired Reserve who was retired under section 1293, 3911, 3914, 6323, 8911, or 8914 of this title, or a member of the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve may be ordered to active duty by the Secretary of the military department concerned at any time. The Secretary concerned may, to the extent consistent with other provisions of law, assign a member ordered to active duty under this section to such duties as the Secretary considers necessary in the interests of national defense.
  (b) A member ordered to active duty under this section who, while on active duty, is promoted to a grade that is higher than his retired grade is entitled, upon his release from that tour of active duty, to placement on the retired list in the highest grade in which he served on active duty satisfactorily, as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned, for not less than six months.
  (c) Except in time of war, or of national emergency declared by the Congress or the President after November 30, 1980, not more than fifteen retired general officers of the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, and not more than fifteen retired flag officers of the Navy, may be on active duty at any one time. For the purposes of this subsection a retired officer ordered to active duty for a period of sixty days or less is not counted.
  (d)    (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), a retired member ordered to active duty under this section shall be ordered to active duty in his retired grade.
    (2) A retired member ordered to active duty under this section whose retired grade is above the grade of major general or rear admiral shall be ordered to active duty in the highest permanent grade held by such member while serving on active duty.
    (3)      (A) A retired member ordered to active duty under this section who has previously served on active duty satisfactorily, as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned, in a grade higher than that member“s retired grade may be ordered to active duty in the highest grade in which the member had so served satisfactorily, except that such a member may not be so ordered to active duty in a grade above major general or rear admiral.
      (B) A retired member ordered to active duty in a grade that is higher than the member“s retired grade pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be treated for purposes of subsection (b) as if the member was promoted to that higher grade while on that tour of active duty.
      (C) If, upon being released from that tour of active duty, such a retired member has served on active duty satisfactorily, as determined by the Secretary concerned, for not less than a total of 36 months in a grade that is a higher grade than the member“s retired grade, the member is entitled to placement on the retired list in that grade.
