  (a) T4Exchange Program AuthorizedK.–The Secretary of the Navy may permit a student enrolled at a military academy of a foreign country to receive instruction at the Naval Academy in exchange for a midshipman receiving instruction at that foreign military academy pursuant to an exchange agreement entered into between the Secretary and appropriate officials of the foreign country. Students receiving instruction at the Academy under the exchange program shall be in addition to persons receiving instruction at the Academy under section 6957 of this title.
  (b) T4Limitations on Number and Duration of ExchangesK.–An exchange agreement under this section between the Secretary and a foreign country shall provide for the exchange of students on a one-for-one basis each fiscal year. Not more than 100 midshipmen and a comparable number of students from all foreign military academies participating in the exchange program may be exchanged during any fiscal year. The duration of an exchange may not exceed the equivalent of one academic semester at the Naval Academy.
  (c) T4Costs and ExpensesK.–(1) A student from a military academy of a foreign country is not entitled to the pay, allowances, and emoluments of a midshipman by reason of attendance at the Naval Academy under the exchange program, and the Department of Defense may not incur any cost of international travel required for transportation of such a student to and from the sponsoring foreign country.
  (2) The Secretary may provide a student from a foreign country under the exchange program, during the period of the exchange, with subsistence, transportation within the continental United States, clothing, health care, and other services to the same extent that the foreign country provides comparable support and services to the exchanged midshipman in that foreign country.
  (3) The Naval Academy shall bear all costs of the exchange program from funds appropriated for the Academy and such additional funds as may be available to the Academy from a source other than appropriated funds to support cultural immersion, regional awareness, or foreign language training activities in connection with the exchange program.
  (4) Expenditures in support of the exchange program from funds appropriated for the Naval Academy may not exceed $1,000,000 during any fiscal year.
  (d) T4Application of Other LawsK.–Subsections (c) and (d) of section 6957 of this title shall apply with respect to a student enrolled at a military academy of a foreign country while attending the Naval Academy under the exchange program.
  (e) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to implement this section. Such regulations may include qualification criteria and methods of selection for students of foreign military academies to participate in the exchange program.
