  (a) A member of an armed force is entitled to leave at the rate of 2\1/2\ calendar days for each month of active service, excluding periods of–
    (1) absence from duty without leave;
    (2) absence over leave;
    (3) confinement as the result of a sentence of a court-martial; and
    (4) leave required to be taken under section 876a of this title.
       Full-time training, or other full-time duty for a period of more than 29 days, performed under section 316, 502, 503, 504, or 505 of title 32 by a member of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard of the United States in his status as a member of the National Guard, and for which he is entitled to pay, is active service for the purposes of this section.
  (b) Except as provided in subsection (f) and subsection (g), a member may not accumulate more than 60 days“ leave. However, leave taken during a fiscal year may be charged to leave accumulated during that fiscal year without regard to this limitation.
  (c) A member who retired after August 9, 1946, who is continued on, or is recalled to active duty, may have his leave which accumulated during his service before retirement carried over to his period of service after retirement.
     [(d) Repealed. Pub. L. 89–151, § 3, Aug. 28, 1965, 79 Stat. 586.]
  (e) Leave taken before discharge is considered to be active service.
  (f)    (1)      (A) The Secretary concerned, under uniform regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, may authorize a member described in subparagraph (B) who, except for this paragraph, would lose any accumulated leave in excess of 60 days at the end of the fiscal year, to retain an accumulated total of 120 days leave.
      (B) This subsection applies to a member who serves on active duty for a continuous period of at least 120 days–
        (i) in an area in which the member is entitled to special pay under section 310(a) of title 37; or
        (ii) while assigned to a deployable ship or mobile unit or to other duty comparable to that specified in clause (i) that is designated for the purpose of this subsection.
      (C) Except as provided in paragraph (2), leave in excess of 60 days accumulated under this paragraph is lost unless it is used by the member before the end of the third fiscal year after the fiscal year in which the continuous period of service referred to in subparagraph (B) terminated.
    (2) Under the uniform regulations referred to in paragraph (1), a member of an armed force who serves on active duty in a duty assignment in support of a contingency operation during a fiscal year and who, except for this paragraph–
      (A) would lose any accumulated leave in excess of 60 days at the end of that fiscal year, shall be permitted to retain such leave (not to exceed 90 days) until the end of the succeeding fiscal year; or
      (B) would lose any accumulated leave in excess of 60 days at the end of the succeeding fiscal year (other than by reason of subparagraph (A)), shall be permitted to retain such leave (not to exceed 90 days) until the end of the next succeeding fiscal year.
  (g) A member who is in a missing status, as defined in section 551(2) of title 37, accumulates leave without regard to the 60-day limitation in subsection (b) and the 90-day limitation in subsection (f). Notwithstanding the death of a member while in a missing status, he continues to earn leave through the date–
    (1) the Secretary concerned receives evidence that the member is dead; or
    (2) that his death is prescribed or determined under section 555 of title 37.
       Leave accumulated while in missing status shall be accounted for separately. It may not be taken, but shall be paid for under section 501(h) of title 37. However, a member whose death is prescribed or determined under section 555 or 556 of title 37 may, in addition to leave accrued before entering a missing status, accrue not more than 150 days“ leave during the period he is in a missing status, unless his actual death occurs on a date when, had he lived, he would have accrued leave in excess of 150 days, in which event settlement will be made for the number of days accrued to the actual date of death. Leave so accrued in a missing status shall be accounted for separately and paid for under the provisions of section 501 of title 37.
  (h) A member who has taken leave in excess of that authorized by this section and who is being discharged or released from active duty for the purpose of accepting an appointment or a warrant in an armed force, or of entering into an enlistment or an extension of an enlistment in an armed force, may elect to have excess leave of up to 30 days or the maximum number of days of leave that could be earned in the new term of service, whichever is less, carried over to that new term of service to count against leave that will accrue on the new term of service. A member shall be required, at the time of his discharge or release from active duty, to pay for excess leave not carried over under this subsection.
