  (a)    (1) The President of the Naval Postgraduate School shall be one of the following:
      (A) An active-duty officer of the Navy or Marine Corps in a grade not below the grade of captain or colonel, respectively, who is assigned or detailed to such position.
      (B) A civilian individual, including an individual who was retired from the Navy or Marine Corps in a grade not below captain, or colonel, respectively, who has the qualifications appropriate to the position of President and is selected by the Secretary of the Navy as the best qualified from among candidates for the position in accordance with–
        (i) the criteria specified in paragraph (4);
        (ii) a process determined by the Secretary; and
        (iii) other factors the Secretary considers essential.
    (2) Before making an assignment, detail, or selection of an individual for the position of President of the Naval Postgraduate School, the Secretary shall–
      (A) consult with the Board of Advisors for the Naval Postgraduate School;
      (B) consider any recommendation of the leadership and faculty of the Naval Postgraduate School regarding the assignment or selection to that position; and
      (C) consider the recommendations of the Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
    (3) An individual selected for the position of President of the Naval Postgraduate School under paragraph (1)(B) shall serve in that position for a term of not more than five years and may be continued in that position for an additional term of up to five years.
    (4) The qualifications appropriate for selection of an individual for detail or assignment to the position of President of the Naval Postgraduate School include the following:
      (A) An academic degree that is either–
        (i) a doctorate degree in a field of study relevant to the mission and function of the Naval Postgraduate School; or
        (ii) a master“s degree in a field of study relevant to the mission and function of the Naval Postgraduate School, but only if–
          (I) the individual is an active-duty or retired officer of the Navy or Marine Corps in a grade not below the grade of captain or colonel, respectively; and
          (II) at the time of the selection of that individual as President, the individual permanently appointed to the position of Provost and Academic Dean has a doctorate degree in such a field of study.
      (B) A comprehensive understanding of the Department of the Navy, the Department of Defense, and joint and combined operations.
      (C) Leadership experience at the senior level in a large and diverse organization.
      (D) Demonstrated ability to foster and encourage a program of research in order to sustain academic excellence.
      (E) Other qualifications, as determined by the Secretary of the Navy.
  (b) The Secretary shall detail officers of the Navy and the Marine Corps of appropriate grades and qualifications to assist the President in–
    (1) the advanced instruction and professional and technical education of students and the provision of research opportunities for students; and
    (2) the administration of the Postgraduate School.
