  (a)    (1) The Secretary of the Navy may permit officers of the Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard to receive instruction at the Naval Postgraduate School. The numbers and grades of such officers shall be as agreed upon by the Secretary of the Navy with the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Air Force, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, respectively.
    (2)      (A) The Secretary may permit an enlisted member of the armed forces to receive instruction at the Naval Postgraduate School through attendance at an executive level seminar.
      (B) The Secretary may permit an eligible enlisted member of the armed forces to receive instruction at the Postgraduate School in connection with pursuit of a program of education in information assurance as a participant in the Information Security Scholarship program under chapter 112 of this title. To be eligible for instruction under this subparagraph, the enlisted member must have been awarded a baccalaureate degree by an institution of higher education.
      (C) The Secretary may permit an eligible enlisted member of the armed forces to receive instruction from the Postgraduate School in certificate programs and courses required for the performance of the member“s duties.
      (D)        (i) The Secretary may permit an eligible enlisted member of the armed forces to receive graduate-level instruction at the Naval Postgraduate School in a program leading to a master“s degree in a technical, analytical, or engineering curriculum.
        (ii) To be eligible to be provided instruction under this subparagraph, the enlisted member must have been awarded a baccalaureate degree by an institution of higher education.
        (iii) Instruction under this subparagraph may be provided only on a space-available basis.
        (iv) An enlisted member who successfully completes a course of instruction under this subparagraph may be awarded a master“s degree under section 7048 of this title.
        (v) Instruction under this subparagraph shall be provided pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary. Such regulations may include criteria for eligibility of enlisted members for instruction under this subparagraph and specification of obligations for further service in the armed forces relating to receipt of such instruction.
      (E) In addition to instruction authorized under subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), the Secretary may, on a space-available basis, permit an enlisted member of the armed forces who is assigned permanently to the staff of the Postgraduate School or to a nearby command to receive instruction at the Postgraduate School.
  (b)    (1) Except as provided under paragraph (3), the Department of the Army, the Department of the Air Force, and the Department of Homeland Security shall bear the cost of the instruction received by members detailed for that instruction by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Air Force, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, respectively.
    (2) In the case of an enlisted member permitted under subsection (a)(2)(E) to receive instruction at the Postgraduate School on a space-available basis, the Secretary of the Navy shall charge that member only for such costs and fees as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (3) The requirements for payment of costs and fees under paragraph (1) shall be subject to such exceptions as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe for members of the armed forces who receive instruction at the Postgraduate School in connection with pursuit of a degree or certification as participants in the Information Security Scholarship program under chapter 112 of this title.
  (c) While receiving instruction at the Postgraduate School, members of the Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard are subject to such regulations, as determined appropriate by the Secretary of the Navy, as apply to students who are members of the naval service.
  (d) The Secretary may not award a baccalaureate, masters, or doctorate degree to an enlisted member based upon instruction received at the Postgraduate School under subsection (a)(2)(C).
