  (a) T4Authority To Make TransferK.–The Secretary of the Navy may transfer, by gift or otherwise, any vessel stricken from the Naval Vessel Register to any State, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, or any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof, for use as provided in subsection (b).
  (b) T4Vessel To Be Used as Artificial ReefK.–An agreement for the transfer of a vessel under subsection (a) shall require that–
    (1) the recipient use, site, construct, monitor, and manage the vessel only as an artificial reef in accordance with the requirements of the National Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984 (33 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.), except that the recipient may use the artificial reef to enhance diving opportunities if that use does not have an adverse effect on fishery resources (as that term is defined in section 3(14) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802(14))); and
    (2) the recipient obtain, and bear all responsibility for complying with, applicable Federal, State, interstate, and local permits for using, siting, constructing, monitoring, and managing the vessel as an artificial reef.
  (c) T4Preparation of Vessel for Use as Artificial ReefK.–The Secretary shall ensure that the preparation of a vessel transferred under subsection (a) for use as an artificial reef is conducted in accordance with–
    (1) the environmental best management practices developed pursuant to section 3504(b) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107–314; 16 U.S.C. 1220 note); and
    (2) any applicable environmental laws.
  (d) T4Cost SharingK.–The Secretary may share with the recipient of a vessel transferred under subsection (a) any costs associated with transferring the vessel under that subsection, including costs of the preparation of the vessel under subsection (c).
  (e) T4No Limitation on Number of Vessels Transferable to Particular RecipientK.–A State, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, or any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof, may be the recipient of more than one vessel transferred under subsection (a).
  (f) T4Additional Terms and ConditionsK.–The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a transfer authorized by subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (g) T4ConstructionK.–Nothing in this section shall be construed to establish a preference for the use as artificial reefs of vessels stricken from the Naval Vessel Register in lieu of other authorized uses of such vessels, including the domestic scrapping of such vessels, or other disposals of such vessels, under this chapter or other applicable authority.
