  (a) T4Exchange or Sale of Similar ItemsK.–When the Secretary of the Navy sells an obsolete service craft or an obsolete boat, or exchanges such a craft or boat in a transaction for which a similar craft or boat is acquired, the Secretary may retain the proceeds of the sale or the exchange allowance from the exchange, as the case may be, and apply the proceeds of sale or the exchange allowance for any of the following purposes:
    (1) For payment, in whole or in part, for a similar service craft or boat acquired as a replacement, as authorized by section 503 of title 40.
    (2) For reimbursement, to the extent practicable, of the appropriate accounts of the Navy for the full costs of preparation of such obsolete craft or boat for such sale or exchange.
    (3) For deposit to the special account established under subsection (b), to be available in accordance with that subsection.
  (b) T4Special AccountK.–Amounts retained under subsection (a) that are not applied as provided in paragraph (1) or (2) of that subsection shall be deposited into a special account. Amounts in the account shall be available under subsection (c) without regard to fiscal year limitation. Amounts in the account that the Secretary of the Navy determines are not needed for the purpose stated in subsection (c) shall be transferred at least annually to the General Fund of the Treasury.
  (c) T4Costs of Preparation of Obsolete Service Craft and Boats for Future Sale or ExchangeK.–The Secretary may use amounts in the account under subsection (b) for payment, in whole or in part, for the full costs of preparation of obsolete service craft and obsolete boats for future sale or exchange.
  (d) T4Costs of Preparation for Sale or ExchangeK.–In this section, the term ””full costs of preparation““ means the full costs (direct and indirect) incurred by the Navy in preparing an obsolete service craft or an obsolete boat for exchange or sale, including the cost of the following:
    (1) Towing.
    (2) Storage.
    (3) Defueling.
    (4) Removal and disposal of hazardous wastes.
    (5) Environmental surveys to determine the presence of regulated materials containing polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) and, if such materials are found, the removal and disposal of such materials.
    (6) Other costs related to such preparation.
  (e) T4Obsolete Service CraftK.–For purposes of this section, an obsolete service craft is a service craft that has been stricken from the Naval Vessel Register.
  (f) T4Inapplicability of Advertising RequirementK.–Section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5) does not apply to sales of service craft and boats described in subsection (a).
  (g) T4RegulationsK.–The Secretary of the Navy shall prescribe regulations for the purposes of this section.
