  (a) Among the grades listed below, the grades of general and admiral are equivalent and are senior to other grades and the grades of second lieutenant and ensign are equivalent and are junior to other grades. Intermediate grades rank in the order listed as follows:
      h1T3Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps h1T3Navy and Coast Guardj
     General DAdmiral.
     Lieutenant general DVice admiral.
     Major general DRear admiral.
     Brigadier general DRear admiral (lower half).
     Colonel DCaptain.
     Lieutenant colonel DCommander.
     Major DLieutenant commander.
     Captain DLieutenant.
     First lieutenant DLieutenant (junior grade).
     Second lieutenant DEnsign.
  (b) Rank among officers of the same grade or of equivalent grades is determined by comparing dates of rank. An officer whose date of rank is earlier than the date of rank of another officer of the same or equivalent grade is senior to that officer.
  (c) Rank among officers of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps of the same grade or of equivalent grades who have the same date of rank is determined by regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense which shall apply uniformly among the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
  (d)    (1) The date of rank of an officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who holds a grade as the result of an original appointment shall be determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned at the time of such appointment. The date of rank of an officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who holds a grade as the result of an original appointment and who at the time of such appointment was awarded service credit for prior commissioned service or constructive credit for advanced education or training, or special experience shall be determined so as to reflect such prior commissioned service or constructive service. Determinations by the Secretary concerned under this paragraph shall be made under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense which shall apply uniformly among the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
    (2) Except as otherwise provided by law, the date of rank of an officer who holds a grade as the result of a promotion is the date of his appointment to that grade.
    (3) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, which shall apply uniformly among the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, the date of rank of a reserve commissioned officer (other than a warrant officer) of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who is to be placed on the active-duty list and who has not been on continuous active duty since his original appointment as a reserve commissioned officer in a grade above chief warrant officer, W–5, may, effective on the date on which he is placed on the active-duty list, be changed by the Secretary concerned to a later date to reflect such officer“s qualifications and experience.
