  (a) T4Transfer RequiredK.–(1) Upon the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Energy shall transfer to the Secretary of the Interior administrative jurisdiction over all public domain lands included within Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 1 and those public domain lands included within the undeveloped tracts of Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3.
  (2) Not later than November 18, 1998, the Secretary of Energy shall transfer to the Secretary of the Interior administrative jurisdiction over those public domain lands included within the developed tract of Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3, which consists of approximately 6,000 acres and 24 natural gas wells, together with pipelines and associated facilities.
  (3) Notwithstanding the transfer of jurisdiction, the Secretary of Energy shall continue to be responsible for all environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance activities that are required under Federal and State laws with respect to conditions existing on the lands at the time of the transfer.
  (4) Upon the transfer to the Secretary of the Interior of jurisdiction over public domain lands under this subsection, the other provisions of this chapter shall cease to apply with respect to the transferred lands.
  (b) T4Authority To LeaseK.–(1) Beginning on November 18, 1997, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into leases with one or more private entities for the purpose of exploration for, and development and production of, petroleum (other than in the form of oil shale) located on or in public domain lands in Oil Shale Reserves Numbered 1 and 3 (including the developed tract of Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3). Any such lease shall be made in accordance with the requirements of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) regarding the lease of oil and gas lands and shall be subject to valid existing rights.
  (2) Notwithstanding the delayed transfer of the developed tract of Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3 under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into a lease under paragraph (1) with respect to the developed tract before November 18, 1998.
  (c) T4ManagementK.–The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall manage the lands transferred under subsection (a) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other laws applicable to the public lands.
  (d) T4Transfer of Existing EquipmentK.–The lease of lands by the Secretary of the Interior under this section may include the transfer, at fair market value, of any well, gathering line, or related equipment owned by the United States on the lands transferred under subsection (a) and suitable for use in the exploration, development, or production of petroleum on the lands.
  (e) T4Cost MinimizationK.–The cost of any environmental assessment required pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) in connection with a proposed lease under this section shall be paid out of unobligated amounts available for administrative expenses of the Bureau of Land Management.
  (f) T4Treatment of ReceiptsK.–(1) Notwithstanding section 35 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191), all moneys received during the period specified in paragraph (2) from a lease under this section (including moneys in the form of sales, bonuses, royalties (including interest charges collected under the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)), and rentals) shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States and shall not be subject to distribution to the States pursuant to subsection (a) of such section 35.
  (2) The period referred to in this subsection is the period beginning on November 18, 1997, and ending on the date on which the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Interior jointly certify to Congress that the sum of the moneys deposited in the Treasury under paragraph (1) is equal to the total of the following:
    (A) The cost of all environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance activities incurred by the United States with respect to the lands transferred under subsection (a).
    (B) The cost to the United States to originally install wells, gathering lines, and related equipment on the transferred lands and any other cost incurred by the United States with respect to the lands.
  (g) T4Use of ReceiptsK.–(1) The Secretary of the Interior may use, without further appropriation, not more than $1,500,000 of the moneys covered into the Treasury under subsection (f)(1) to cover the cost of any additional analysis, site characterization, and geotechnical studies deemed necessary by the Secretary to support environmental restoration, waste management, or environmental compliance with respect to Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3. Upon the completion of such studies, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a report containing–
    (A) the results and conclusions of such studies; and
    (B) an estimate of the total cost of the Secretary“s preferred alternative to address environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance needs at Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3.
  (2) If the cost estimate required by paragraph (1)(B) does not exceed the total of the moneys covered into the Treasury under subsection (f)(1) and remaining available for obligation as of the date of submission of the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Interior may access such moneys, beginning 60 days after submission of the report and without further appropriation, to cover the costs of implementing the preferred alternative to address environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance needs at Oil Shale Reserve Numbered 3. If the cost estimate exceeds such available moneys, the Secretary of the Interior may only access such moneys as authorized by subsequent Act of Congress.
