   In this chapter:
  (1) The term ””Judge Advocate General““ means, severally, the Judge Advocates General of the Army, Navy, and Air Force and, except when the Coast Guard is operating as a service in the Navy, the General Counsel of the Department of Transportation.
  (2) The Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard when it is operating as a service in the Navy, shall be considered as one armed force.
  (3) The term ””commanding officer““ includes only commissioned officers.
  (4) The term ””officer in charge““ means a member of the Navy, the Marine Corps, or the Coast Guard designated as such by appropriate authority.
  (5) The term ””superior commissioned officer““ means a commissioned officer superior in rank or command.
  (6) The term ””cadet““ means a cadet of the United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, or the United States Coast Guard Academy.
  (7) The term ””midshipman““ means a midshipman of the United States Naval Academy and any other midshipman on active duty in the naval service.
  (8) The term ””military““ refers to any or all of the armed forces.
  (9) The term ””accuser““ means a person who signs and swears to charges, any person who directs that charges nominally be signed and sworn to by another, and any other person who has an interest other than an official interest in the prosecution of the accused.
  (10) The term ””military judge““ means an official of a general or special court-martial detailed in accordance with section 826 of this title (article 26).
  (11) The term ””law specialist““ means a commissioned officer of the Coast Guard designated for special duty (law).
  (12) The term ””legal officer““ means any commissioned officer of the Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard designated to perform legal duties for a command.
  (13) The term ””judge advocate““ means–
    (A) an officer of the Judge Advocate General“s Corps of the Army or the Navy;
    (B) an officer of the Air Force or the Marine Corps who is designated as a judge advocate; or
    (C) an officer of the Coast Guard who is designated as a law specialist.
  (14) The term ””record““, when used in connection with the proceedings of a court-martial, means–
    (A) an official written transcript, written summary, or other writing relating to the proceedings; or
    (B) an official audiotape, videotape, or similar material from which sound, or sound and visual images, depicting the proceedings may be reproduced.
  (15) The term ””classified information““ means (A) any information or material that has been determined by an official of the United States pursuant to law, an Executive order, or regulation to require protection against unauthorized disclosure for reasons of national security, and (B) any restricted data, as defined in section 11(y) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(y)).
  (16) The term ””national security““ means the national defense and foreign relations of the United States.
