  (a)    (1) There is a Chief of Staff of the Air Force, appointed for a period of four years by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from the general officers of the Air Force. He serves at the pleasure of the President. In time of war or during a national emergency declared by Congress, he may be reappointed for a term of not more than four years.
    (2) The President may appoint an officer as Chief of Staff only if–
      (A) the officer has had significant experience in joint duty assignments; and
      (B) such experience includes at least one full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment (as defined in section 664(f) of this title) as a general officer.
    (3) The President may waive paragraph (2) in the case of an officer if the President determines such action is necessary in the national interest.
  (b) The Chief of Staff, while so serving, has the grade of general without vacating his permanent grade.
  (c) Except as otherwise prescribed by law and subject to section 8013(f) of this title, the Chief of Staff performs his duties under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force and is directly responsible to the Secretary.
  (d) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff shall–
    (1) preside over the Air Staff;
    (2) transmit the plans and recommendations of the Air Staff to the Secretary and advise the Secretary with regard to such plans and recommendations;
    (3) after approval of the plans or recommendations of the Air Staff by the Secretary, act as the agent of the Secretary in carrying them into effect;
    (4) exercise supervision, consistent with the authority assigned to commanders of unified or specified combatant commands under chapter 6 of this title, over such of the members and organizations of the Air Force as the Secretary determines;
    (5) perform the duties prescribed for him by section 171 of this title and other provisions of law; and
    (6) perform such other military duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as are assigned to him by the President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of the Air Force.
  (e)    (1) The Chief of Staff shall also perform the duties prescribed for him as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 151 of this title.
    (2) To the extent that such action does not impair the independence of the Chief of Staff in the performance of his duties as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief of Staff shall inform the Secretary regarding military advice rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting the Department of the Air Force.
    (3) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Chief of Staff shall keep the Secretary of the Air Force fully informed of significant military operations affecting the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary.
