  (a) There is in the executive part of the Department of the Air Force an Office of Air Force Reserve which is headed by a chief who is the adviser to the Chief of Staff on Air Force Reserve matters.
  (b) T4AppointmentK.–(1) The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint the Chief of Air Force Reserve from general officers of the Air Force Reserve who have had at least 10 years of commissioned service in the Air Force.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense may not recommend an officer to the President for appointment as Chief of Air Force Reserve unless the officer–
    (A) is recommended by the Secretary of the Air Force; and
    (B) is determined by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in accordance with criteria and as a result of a process established by the Chairman, to have significant joint duty experience.
  (3) An officer on active duty for service as the Chief of Air Force Reserve shall be counted for purposes of the grade limitations under sections 525 and 526 of this title.I11(4) Until December 31, 2006, the Secretary of Defense may waive subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) with respect to the appointment of an officer as Chief of Air Force Reserve if the Secretary of the Air Force requests the waiver and, in the judgment of the Secretary of Defense–
    (A) the officer is qualified for service in the position; and
    (B) the waiver is necessary for the good of the service.
       Any such waiver shall be made on a case-by-case basis.
  (c) T4Term; Reappointment; GradeK.–(1) The Chief of Air Force Reserve is appointed for a period of four years, but may be removed for cause at any time. An officer serving as Chief of Air Force Reserve may be reappointed for one additional four-year period.
  (2) The Chief of Air Force Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of lieutenant general.
  (d) T4BudgetK.–The Chief of Air Force Reserve is the official within the executive part of the Department of the Air Force who, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff, is responsible for preparation, justification, and execution of the personnel, operation and maintenance, and construction budgets for the Air Force Reserve. As such, the Chief of Air Force Reserve is the director and functional manager of appropriations made for the Air Force Reserve in those areas.
  (e) T4Full Time Support ProgramK.–The Chief of Air Force Reserve manages, with respect to the Air Force Reserve, the personnel program of the Department of Defense known as the Full Time Support Program.
  (f) T4Annual ReportK.–(1) The Chief of Air Force Reserve shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, through the Secretary of the Air Force, an annual report on the state of the Air Force Reserve and the ability of the Air Force Reserve to meet its missions. The report shall be prepared in conjunction with the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and may be submitted in classified and unclassified versions.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense shall transmit the annual report of the Chief of Air Force Reserve under paragraph (1) to Congress, together with such comments on the report as the Secretary considers appropriate. The report shall be transmitted at the same time each year that the annual report of the Secretary under section 113 of this title is submitted to Congress.
