  (a) A reserve officer who is serving on active duty (other than for training) in a temporary grade which is higher than his reserve grade shall, upon his application, be promoted to the next higher reserve grade when he completes the amount of service in his current reserve grade prescribed by section 8363(a) of this title.
  (b) If an officer of the Air National Guard of the United States is eligible and applies for promotion under this section, the governor or other appropriate authority of the jurisdiction concerned may promote him to fill a vacancy specially created, if necessary, in the Air National Guard of the jurisdiction concerned. If he is so promoted, he shall, effective on the date of promotion, be extended Federal recognition in the grade to which promoted, without the examination prescribed in section 307 of title 32. If he is not so promoted in the Air National Guard within 90 days after he applies, his Federal recognition in his reserve grade shall be terminated and he shall be transferred to the Air Force Reserve and promoted therein.
  (c) A reserve officer who is serving on active duty (other than for training) in a temporary grade that is higher than his reserve grade retains that temporary grade if he is released from active duty before completing the amount of service prescribed in section 8363(a) of this title or before applying for promotion under subsection (a). When he completes that amount of service and applies, or if, having completed that amount of service before being released from active duty, he applies, an officer covered by this subsection shall be promoted to the next higher reserve grade, without regard to vacancies. An officer of the Air National Guard covered by this subsection who is promoted to a grade in the Air National Guard which is equal to his temporary grade, shall be extended Federal recognition in that grade, without the examination prescribed in section 307 of title 32. If necessary, he shall be carried as an additional number therein until a vacancy occurs, but not for more than two years. If a vacancy does not occur within two years, his Federal recognition shall be terminated and he shall be transferred to the Air Force Reserve. This subsection does not apply to promotion to the reserve grade of brigadier general or major general.
  (d) An officer who is released from active duty after being promoted to a reserve general officer grade under this section becomes subject to section 8375 of this title.
