  (a) T4AuthorityK.–Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, the commander of the Air University may, upon the recommendation of the faculty of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology, confer appropriate degrees upon graduates of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology who meet the degree requirements.
  (b) T4LimitationK.–A degree may not be conferred under this section unless–
    (1) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval of the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and
    (2) the United States Air Force Institute of Technology is accredited by the appropriate civilian academic accrediting agency or organization to award the degree, as determined by the Secretary of Education.
  (c) T4Congressional Notification RequirementsK.–(1) When seeking to establish degree granting authority under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives–
    (A) a copy of the self assessment questionnaire required by the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies, at the time the assessment is submitted to the Department of Education“s National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity; and
    (B) the subsequent recommendations and rationale of the Secretary of Education regarding the establishment of the degree granting authority.
  (2) Upon any modification or redesignation of existing degree granting authority, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the rationale for the proposed modification or redesignation and any subsequent recommendation of the Secretary of Education on the proposed modification or redesignation.
  (3) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing an explanation of any action by the appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization not to accredit the United States Air Force Institute of Technology to award any new or existing degree.
  (d) T4Civilian FacultyK.–(1) The Secretary of the Air Force may employ as many civilian faculty members at the United States Air Force Institute of Technology as is consistent with the needs of the Air Force and with Department of Defense personnel limits.
  (2) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations determining–
    (A) titles and duties of civilian members of the faculty; and
    (B) pay of civilian members of the faculty, notwithstanding chapter 53 of title 5, but subject to the limitation set out in section 5373 of title 5.
  (e) T4Reimbursement and TuitionK.–(1) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of Homeland Security shall bear the cost of the instruction at the Air Force Institute of Technology that is received by members of the armed forces detailed for that instruction by the Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Homeland Security, respectively.
  (2) Members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard may only be detailed for instruction at the Institute on a space-available basis.
  (3) In the case of an enlisted member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard permitted to receive instruction at the Institute, the Secretary of the Air Force shall charge that member only for such costs and fees as the Secretary considers appropriate (taking into consideration the admission of enlisted members on a space-available basis).
  (4)    (A) The Institute shall charge tuition for the cost of providing instruction at the Institute for any civilian employee of a military department (other than a civilian employee of the Department of the Air Force), of another component of the Department of Defense, or of another Federal agency who receives instruction at the Institute.
    (B) The cost of any tuition charged an individual under this paragraph shall be borne by the department, agency, or component sending the individual for instruction at the Institute.
  (5) Amounts received by the Institute for the instruction of students under this subsection shall be retained by the Institute. Such amounts shall be available to the Institute to cover the costs of such instruction. The source and disposition of such amounts shall be specifically identified in the records of the Institute.
  (f) T4Acceptance of Research GrantsK.–(1) The Secretary of the Air Force may authorize the Commandant of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology to accept qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor of the Institute for a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.
  (2) A qualifying research grant under this subsection is a grant that is awarded on a competitive basis by an entity referred to in paragraph (3) for a research project with a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.
  (3) A grant may be accepted under this subsection only from a corporation, fund, foundation, educational institution, or similar entity that is organized and operated primarily for scientific, literary, or educational purposes.
  (4) The Secretary shall establish an account for administering funds received as research grants under this section. The Commandant of the Institute shall use the funds in the account in accordance with applicable provisions of the regulations and the terms and condition of the grants received.
  (5) Subject to such limitations as may be provided in appropriations Acts, appropriations available for the Institute may be used to pay expenses incurred by the Institute in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of qualifying research grants.
  (6) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this subsection.
