  (a) T4Establishment and MissionK.–There is in the Air Force a Community College of the Air Force. Such college, in cooperation with civilian colleges and universities, shall–
    (1) prescribe programs of higher education for enlisted members described in subsection (b) designed to improve the technical, managerial, and related skills of such members and to prepare such members for military jobs which require the utilization of such skills; and
    (2) monitor on a continuing basis the progress of members pursuing such programs.
  (b) T4Members Eligible for ProgramsK.–Subject to such other eligibility requirements as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, the following members of the armed forces are eligible to participate in programs of higher education under subsection (a)(1):
    (1) Enlisted members of the Air Force.
    (2) Enlisted members of the armed forces other than the Air Force who are serving as instructors at Air Force training schools.
  (c) T4Seriously Wounded, Ill, or Injured Former and Retired Enlisted MembersK.–(1) The Secretary of the Air Force may authorize participation in a program of higher education under subsection (a)(1) by a person who is a former or retired enlisted member of the armed forces who at the time of the person“s separation from active duty–
    (A) had commenced but had not completed a program of higher education under subsection (a)(1); and
    (B) is categorized by the Secretary concerned as seriously wounded, ill, or injured.
  (2) For purposes of this subsection, a person who may be categorized as seriously wounded, ill, or injured is a person with a serious injury or illness (as that term is defined in section 1602(8) of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110–181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note)).
  (3) A person may not be authorized under paragraph (1) to participate in a program of higher education after the end of the 10-year period beginning on the date of the person“s separation from active duty.
  (4) The Secretary may not pay the tuition for participation in a program of higher education under subsection (a)(1) of a person participating in such program pursuant to an authorization under paragraph (1).
  (d) T4Associate DegreesK.–(1) Subject to paragraph (2), an academic degree at the level of associate may be conferred under section 9317 of this title upon any person who has completed a program prescribed by the Community College of the Air Force.
  (2) No degree may be conferred upon any person under this section unless the Secretary of Education determines that the standards for the award of academic degrees in agencies of the United States have been met.
