   In this chapter:
  (1) T4AlienK.–The term ””alien““ means an individual who is not a citizen of the United States.
  (2) T4Classified informationK.–The term ””classified information““ means the following:
    (A) Any information or material that has been determined by the United States Government pursuant to statute, Executive order, or regulation to require protection against unauthorized disclosure for reasons of national security.
    (B) Any restricted data, as that term is defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(y)).
  (3) T4Coalition partnerK.–The term ””coalition partner““, with respect to hostilities engaged in by the United States, means any State or armed force directly engaged along with the United States in such hostilities or providing direct operational support to the United States in connection with such hostilities.
  (4) T4Geneva convention relative to the treatment of prisoners of warK.–The term ””Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War““ means the Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, done at Geneva August 12, 1949 (6 UST 3316).
  (5) T4Geneva conventionsK.–The term ””Geneva Conventions““ means the international conventions signed at Geneva on August 12, 1949.
  (6) T4Privileged belligerentK.–The term ””privileged belligerent““ means an individual belonging to one of the eight categories enumerated in Article 4 of the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War.
  (7) T4Unprivileged enemy belligerentK.–The term ””unprivileged enemy belligerent““ means an individual (other than a privileged belligerent) who–
    (A) has engaged in hostilities against the United States or its coalition partners;
    (B) has purposefully and materially supported hostilities against the United States or its coalition partners; or
    (C) was a part of al Qaeda at the time of the alleged offense under this chapter.
  (8) T4National securityK.–The term ””national security““ means the national defense and foreign relations of the United States.
  (9) T4HostilitiesK.–The term ””hostilities““ means any conflict subject to the laws of war.
