  (a) T4Sessions Without Presence of MembersK.–(1) At any time after the service of charges which have been referred for trial by military commission under this chapter, the military judge may call the military commission into session without the presence of the members for the purpose of–
    (A) hearing and determining motions raising defenses or objections which are capable of determination without trial of the issues raised by a plea of not guilty;
    (B) hearing and ruling upon any matter which may be ruled upon by the military judge under this chapter, whether or not the matter is appropriate for later consideration or decision by the members;
    (C) if permitted by regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, receiving the pleas of the accused; and
    (D) performing any other procedural function which may be performed by the military judge under this chapter or under rules prescribed pursuant to section 949a of this title and which does not require the presence of the members.
  (2) Except as provided in subsections (c) and (e), any proceedings under paragraph (1) shall–
    (A) be conducted in the presence of the accused, defense counsel, and trial counsel; and
    (B) be made part of the record.
  (b) T4Proceedings in Presence of AccusedK.–Except as provided in subsections (c) and (e), all proceedings of a military commission under this chapter, including any consultation of the members with the military judge or counsel, shall–
    (1) be in the presence of the accused, defense counsel, and trial counsel; and
    (2) be made a part of the record.
  (c) T4Deliberation or Vote of MembersK.–When the members of a military commission under this chapter deliberate or vote, only the members may be present.
  (d) T4Closure of ProceedingsK.–(1) The military judge may close to the public all or part of the proceedings of a military commission under this chapter, but only in accordance with this subsection.
  (2) The military judge may close to the public all or a portion of the proceedings under paragraph (1) only upon making a specific finding that such closure is necessary to–
    (A) protect information the disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause damage to the national security, including intelligence or law enforcement sources, methods, or activities; or
    (B) ensure the physical safety of individuals.
  (3) A finding under paragraph (2) may be based upon a presentation, including a presentation ex parte or in camera, by either trial counsel or defense counsel.
  (e) T4Exclusion of Accused From Certain ProceedingsK.–The military judge may exclude the accused from any portion of a proceeding upon a determination that, after being warned by the military judge, the accused persists in conduct that justifies exclusion from the courtroom–
    (1) to ensure the physical safety of individuals; or
    (2) to prevent disruption of the proceedings by the accused.
  (f) T4Protection of Classified Information.–
    (1) T4National security privilegeK.–(A) Classified information shall be protected and is privileged from disclosure if disclosure would be detrimental to the national security. The rule in the preceding sentence applies to all stages of the proceedings of military commissions under this chapter.
  (B) The privilege referred to in subparagraph (A) may be claimed by the head of the executive or military department or government agency concerned based on a finding by the head of that department or agency that–
    (i) the information is properly classified; and
    (ii) disclosure of the information would be detrimental to the national security.
  (C) A person who may claim the privilege referred to in subparagraph (A) may authorize a representative, witness, or trial counsel to claim the privilege and make the finding described in subparagraph (B) on behalf of such person. The authority of the representative, witness, or trial counsel to do so is presumed in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
  (2) T4Introduction of classified information.–
    (A) T4Alternatives to disclosureK.–To protect classified information from disclosure, the military judge, upon motion of trial counsel, shall authorize, to the extent practicable–
      (i) the deletion of specified items of classified information from documents to be introduced as evidence before the military commission;
      (ii) the substitution of a portion or summary of the information for such classified documents; or
      (iii) the substitution of a statement of relevant facts that the classified information would tend to prove.
    (B) T4Protection of sources, methods, or activitiesK.–The military judge, upon motion of trial counsel, shall permit trial counsel to introduce otherwise admissible evidence before the military commission, while protecting from disclosure the sources, methods, or activities by which the United States acquired the evidence if the military judge finds that (i) the sources, methods, or activities by which the United States acquired the evidence are classified, and (ii) the evidence is reliable. The military judge may require trial counsel to present to the military commission and the defense, to the extent practicable and consistent with national security, an unclassified summary of the sources, methods, or activities by which the United States acquired the evidence.
    (C) T4Assertion of national security privilege at trialK.–During the examination of any witness, trial counsel may object to any question, line of inquiry, or motion to admit evidence that would require the disclosure of classified information. Following such an objection, the military judge shall take suitable action to safeguard such classified information. Such action may include the review of trial counsel“s claim of privilege by the military judge in camera and on an ex parte basis, and the delay of proceedings to permit trial counsel to consult with the department or agency concerned as to whether the national security privilege should be asserted.
  (3) T4Consideration of privilege and related materialsK.–A claim of privilege under this subsection, and any materials submitted in support thereof, shall, upon request of the Government, be considered by the military judge in camera and shall not be disclosed to the accused.
  (4) T4Additional regulationsK.–The Secretary of Defense may prescribe additional regulations, consistent with this subsection, for the use and protection of classified information during proceedings of military commissions under this chapter. A report on any regulations so prescribed, or modified, shall be submitted to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 60 days before the date on which such regulations or modifications, as the case may be, go into effect.
