  (a) T4Notice to Convening Authority of Findings and SentenceK.–The findings and sentence of a military commission under this chapter shall be reported in writing promptly to the convening authority after the announcement of the sentence.
  (b) T4Submittal of Matters by Accused to Convening AuthorityK.–(1) The accused may submit to the convening authority matters for consideration by the convening authority with respect to the findings and the sentence of the military commission under this chapter.
  (2)    (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a submittal under paragraph (1) shall be made in writing within 20 days after the accused has been give \1\N an authenticated record of trial under section 949T3oK(c) of this title.
    (B) If the accused shows that additional time is required for the accused to make a submittal under paragraph (1), the convening authority may, for good cause, extend the applicable period under subparagraph (A) for not more than an additional 20 days.
  (3) The accused may waive the accused“s right to make a submittal to the convening authority under paragraph (1). Such a waiver shall be made in writing, and may not be revoked. For the purposes of subsection (c)(2), the time within which the accused may make a submittal under this subsection shall be deemed to have expired upon the submittal of a waiver under this paragraph to the convening authority.
  (c) T4Action by Convening AuthorityK.–(1) The authority under this subsection to modify the findings and sentence of a military commission under this chapter is a matter of the sole discretion and prerogative of the convening authority.
  (2) The convening authority is not required to take action on the findings of a military commission under this chapter. If the convening authority takes action on the findings, the convening authority may, in the sole discretion of the convening authority, only–
    (A) dismiss any charge or specification by setting aside a finding of guilty thereto; or
    (B) change a finding of guilty to a charge to a finding of guilty to an offense that is a lesser included offense of the offense stated in the charge.
  (3)    (A) The convening authority shall take action on the sentence of a military commission under this chapter.
    (B) Subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, action under this paragraph may be taken only after consideration of any matters submitted by the accused under subsection (b) or after the time for submitting such matters expires, whichever is earlier.
    (C) In taking action under this paragraph, the convening authority may, in the sole discretion of the convening authority, approve, disapprove, commute, or suspend the sentence in whole or in part. The convening authority may not increase a sentence beyond that which is found by the military commission.
  (4) The convening authority shall serve on the accused or on defense counsel notice of any action taken by the convening authority under this subsection.
  (d) T4Order of Revision or RehearingK.–(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the convening authority of a military commission under this chapter may, in the sole discretion of the convening authority, order a proceeding in revision or a rehearing.
  (2)    (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a proceeding in revision may be ordered by the convening authority if–
      (i) there is an apparent error or omission in the record; or
      (ii) the record shows improper or inconsistent action by the military commission with respect to the findings or sentence that can be rectified without material prejudice to the substantial rights of the accused.
    (B) In no case may a proceeding in revision–
      (i) reconsider a finding of not guilty of a specification or a ruling which amounts to a finding of not guilty;
      (ii) reconsider a finding of not guilty of any charge, unless there has been a finding of guilty under a specification laid under that charge, which sufficiently alleges a violation; or
      (iii) increase the severity of the sentence unless the sentence prescribed for the offense is mandatory.
  (3) A rehearing may be ordered by the convening authority if the convening authority disapproves the findings and sentence and states the reasons for disapproval of the findings. If the convening authority disapproves the finding and sentence and does not order a rehearing, the convening authority shall dismiss the charges. A rehearing as to the findings may not be ordered by the convening authority when there is a lack of sufficient evidence in the record to support the findings. A rehearing as to the sentence may be ordered by the convening authority if the convening authority disapproves the sentence.
