   In this chapter:
  (1) The terms ””aircraft““, ””citizen of the United States““, ””civil aircraft““, ””person““, and ””public aircraft““ have the meanings given those terms by section 40102(a) of title 49.
  (2) The term ””passenger-cargo combined aircraft““ means a civil aircraft equipped so that its main deck can be used to carry both passengers and property (including mail) simultaneously.
  (3) The term ””cargo-capable aircraft““ means a civil aircraft equipped so that all or substantially all of the aircraft“s capacity can be used for the carriage of property or mail.
  (4) The term ””passenger aircraft““ means a civil aircraft equipped so that its main deck can be used for the carriage of individuals and cannot be used principally, without major modification, for the carriage of property or mail.
  (5) The term ””cargo-convertible aircraft““ means a passenger aircraft equipped or designed so that all or substantially all of the main deck of the aircraft can be readily converted for the carriage of property or mail.
  (6) The term ””Civil Reserve Air Fleet““ means those aircraft allocated, or identified for allocation, to the Department of Defense under section 101 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2071), or made available (or agreed to be made available) for use by the Department of Defense under a contract made under this title, as part of the program developed by the Department of Defense through which the Department of Defense augments its airlift capability by use of civil aircraft.
  (7) The term ””contractor““ means a citizen of the United States (A) who owns or controls, or who will own or control, a new or existing aircraft and who contracts with the Secretary under section 9512 of this title to modify that aircraft by including or incorporating specified defense features in that aircraft and to commit that aircraft to the Civil Reserve Air Fleet, (B) who subsequently obtains ownership or control of a civil aircraft covered by such a contract and assumes all existing obligations under that contract, or (C) who owns or controls, or will own or control, new or existing aircraft and who, by contract, commits some or all of such aircraft to the Civil Reserve Air Fleet.
  (8) The term ””existing aircraft““ means a civil aircraft other than a new aircraft.
  (9) The term ””new aircraft““ means a civil aircraft that a manufacturer has not begun to assemble before the aircraft is covered by a contract under section 9512 of this title.
  (10) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Air Force.
  (11) The term ””defense feature““ means equipment or design features included or incorporated in a civil aircraft which ensures the compatibility of such aircraft with the Department of Defense airlift system. Such term includes any equipment or design feature which enables such aircraft to be readily modified for use as an aeromedical aircraft or a cargo-convertible, cargo-capable, or passenger-cargo combined aircraft.
