  (a) The Secretary of the Air Force shall procure and sell, for cash or credit–
    (1) articles designated by him, to members of the Air Force; and
    (2) items of individual clothing and equipment, to officers of the Air Force, under such restrictions as the Secretary may prescribe.
       An account of sales on credit shall be kept and the amount due reported to the Secretary. Except for articles and items acquired through the use of working capital funds under section 2208 of this title, sales of articles shall be at cost, and sales of individual clothing and equipment shall be at average current prices, including overhead, as determined by the Secretary.
  (b) The Secretary shall sell subsistence supplies to members of other armed forces at the prices at which like property is sold to members of the Air Force.
  (c) The Secretary may sell serviceable quartermaster property, other than subsistence supplies, to an officer of another armed force for his use in the service, in the same manner as these articles are sold to an officer of the Air Force.
  (d) A person who has been discharged honorably or under honorable conditions from the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps and who is receiving care and medical treatment from the Public Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs may buy subsistence supplies and other supplies, except articles of uniform, at the prices at which like property is sold to a member of the Air Force.
  (e) Under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, exterior articles of uniform may be sold to a person who has been discharged from the Air Force honorably or under honorable conditions, at the prices at which like articles are sold to members of the Air Force. This subsection does not modify section 772 or 773 of this title.
  (f) Whenever, under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary, subsistence supplies are furnished to any organization of the Air Force or sold to employees of any executive department other than the Department of Defense, payment shall be made in cash or by commercial credit.
  (g) The Secretary may, by regulation, provide for the procurement and sale of stores designated by him to such civilian officers and employees of the United States, and such other persons, as he considers proper–
    (1) at military installations outside the United States; and
    (2) at military installations inside the United States where he determines that it is impracticable for those civilian officers, employees, and persons to obtain those stores from private agencies without impairing the efficient operation of military activities.
       However, sales to those officers and employees inside the United States may be made only to those residing within military installations.
  (h) Appropriations for subsistence of the Air Force may be applied to the purchase of subsistence supplies for sale to members of the Air Force on active duty for the use of themselves and their families.
