  (a) In general
     Except as otherwise provided in this section–
    (1) property acquired from a decedent dying after December 31, 2009, shall be treated for purposes of this subtitle as transferred by gift, and
    (2) the basis of the person acquiring property from such a decedent shall be the lesser of–
      (A) the adjusted basis of the decedent, or
      (B) the fair market value of the property at the date of the decedent“s death.
  (b) Basis increase for certain property
    (1) In general
       In the case of property to which this subsection applies, the basis of such property under subsection (a) shall be increased by its basis increase under this subsection.
    (2) Basis increase
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The basis increase under this subsection for any property is the portion of the aggregate basis increase which is allocated to the property pursuant to this section.
      (B) Aggregate basis increase
         In the case of any estate, the aggregate basis increase under this subsection is $1,300,000.
      (C) Limit increased by unused built-in losses and loss carryovers
         The limitation under subparagraph (B) shall be increased by–
        (i) the sum of the amount of any capital loss carryover under section 1212(b), and the amount of any net operating loss carryover under section 172, which would (but for the decedent“s death) be carried from the decedent“s last taxable year to a later taxable year of the decedent, plus
        (ii) the sum of the amount of any losses that would have been allowable under section 165 if the property acquired from the decedent had been sold at fair market value immediately before the decedent“s death.
    (3) Decedent nonresidents who are not citizens of the United States
       In the case of a decedent nonresident not a citizen of the United States–
      (A) paragraph (2)(B) shall be applied by substituting ””$60,000““ for ””$1,300,000““, and
      (B) paragraph (2)(C) shall not apply.
  (c) Additional basis increase for property acquired by surviving spouse
    (1) In general
       In the case of property to which this subsection applies and which is qualified spousal property, the basis of such property under subsection (a) (as increased under subsection (b)) shall be increased by its spousal property basis increase.
    (2) Spousal property basis increase
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The spousal property basis increase for property referred to in paragraph (1) is the portion of the aggregate spousal property basis increase which is allocated to the property pursuant to this section.
      (B) Aggregate spousal property basis increase
         In the case of any estate, the aggregate spousal property basis increase is $3,000,000.
    (3) Qualified spousal property
       For purposes of this subsection, the term ””qualified spousal property““ means–
      (A) outright transfer property, and
      (B) qualified terminable interest property.
    (4) Outright transfer property
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The term ””outright transfer property““ means any interest in property acquired from the decedent by the decedent“s surviving spouse.
      (B) Exception
         Subparagraph (A) shall not apply where, on the lapse of time, on the occurrence of an event or contingency, or on the failure of an event or contingency to occur, an interest passing to the surviving spouse will terminate or fail–
        (i)          (I) if an interest in such property passes or has passed (for less than an adequate and full consideration in money or money“s worth) from the decedent to any person other than such surviving spouse (or the estate of such spouse), and
          (II) if by reason of such passing such person (or his heirs or assigns) may possess or enjoy any part of such property after such termination or failure of the interest so passing to the surviving spouse, or
        (ii) if such interest is to be acquired for the surviving spouse, pursuant to directions of the decedent, by his executor or by the trustee of a trust.
         For purposes of this subparagraph, an interest shall not be considered as an interest which will terminate or fail merely because it is the ownership of a bond, note, or similar contractual obligation, the discharge of which would not have the effect of an annuity for life or for a term.
      (C) Interest of spouse conditional on survival for limited period
         For purposes of this paragraph, an interest passing to the surviving spouse shall not be considered as an interest which will terminate or fail on the death of such spouse if–
        (i) such death will cause a termination or failure of such interest only if it occurs within a period not exceeding 6 months after the decedent“s death, or only if it occurs as a result of a common disaster resulting in the death of the decedent and the surviving spouse, or only if it occurs in the case of either such event, and
        (ii) such termination or failure does not in fact occur.
    (5) Qualified terminable interest property
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The term ””qualified terminable interest property““ means property–
        (i) which passes from the decedent, and
        (ii) in which the surviving spouse has a qualifying income interest for life.
      (B) Qualifying income interest for life
         The surviving spouse has a qualifying income interest for life if–
        (i) the surviving spouse is entitled to all the income from the property, payable annually or at more frequent intervals, or has a usufruct interest for life in the property, and
        (ii) no person has a power to appoint any part of the property to any person other than the surviving spouse.
         Clause (ii) shall not apply to a power exercisable only at or after the death of the surviving spouse. To the extent provided in regulations, an annuity shall be treated in a manner similar to an income interest in property (regardless of whether the property from which the annuity is payable can be separately identified).
      (C) Property includes interest therein
         The term ””property““ includes an interest in property.
      (D) Specific portion treated as separate property
         A specific portion of property shall be treated as separate property. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ””specific portion““ only includes a portion determined on a fractional or percentage basis.
  (d) Definitions and special rules for application of subsections (b) and (c)
    (1) Property to which subsections (b) and (c) apply
      (A) In general
         The basis of property acquired from a decedent may be increased under subsection (b) or (c) only if the property was owned by the decedent at the time of death.
      (B) Rules relating to ownership
        (i) Jointly held property
           In the case of property which was owned by the decedent and another person as joint tenants with right of survivorship or tenants by the entirety–
          (I) if the only such other person is the surviving spouse, the decedent shall be treated as the owner of only 50 percent of the property,
          (II) in any case (to which subclause (I) does not apply) in which the decedent furnished consideration for the acquisition of the property, the decedent shall be treated as the owner to the extent of the portion of the property which is proportionate to such consideration, and
          (III) in any case (to which subclause (I) does not apply) in which the property has been acquired by gift, bequest, devise, or inheritance by the decedent and any other person as joint tenants with right of survivorship and their interests are not otherwise specified or fixed by law, the decedent shall be treated as the owner to the extent of the value of a fractional part to be determined by dividing the value of the property by the number of joint tenants with right of survivorship.
        (ii) Revocable trusts
           The decedent shall be treated as owning property transferred by the decedent during life to a qualified revocable trust (as defined in section 645(b)(1)).
        (iii) Powers of appointment
           The decedent shall not be treated as owning any property by reason of holding a power of appointment with respect to such property.
        (iv) Community property
           Property which represents the surviving spouse“s one-half share of community property held by the decedent and the surviving spouse under the community property laws of any State or possession of the United States or any foreign country shall be treated for purposes of this section as owned by, and acquired from, the decedent if at least one-half of the whole of the community interest in such property is treated as owned by, and acquired from, the decedent without regard to this clause.
      (C) Property acquired by decedent by gift within 3 years of death
        (i) In general
           Subsections (b) and (c) shall not apply to property acquired by the decedent by gift or by inter vivos transfer for less than adequate and full consideration in money or money“s worth during the 3-year period ending on the date of the decedent“s death.
        (ii) Exception for certain gifts from spouse
           Clause (i) shall not apply to property acquired by the decedent from the decedent“s spouse unless, during such 3-year period, such spouse acquired the property in whole or in part by gift or by inter vivos transfer for less than adequate and full consideration in money or money“s worth.
      (D) Stock of certain entities
         Subsections (b) and (c) shall not apply to–
        (i) stock or securities of a foreign personal holding company,
        (ii) stock of a DISC or former DISC,
        (iii) stock of a foreign investment company, or
        (iv) stock of a passive foreign investment company unless such company is a qualified electing fund (as defined in section 1295) with respect to the decedent.
    (2) Fair market value limitation
       The adjustments under subsections (b) and (c) shall not increase the basis of any interest in property acquired from the decedent above its fair market value in the hands of the decedent as of the date of the decedent“s death.
    (3) Allocation rules
      (A) In general
         The executor shall allocate the adjustments under subsections (b) and (c) on the return required by section 6018.
      (B) Changes in allocation
         Any allocation made pursuant to subparagraph (A) may be changed only as provided by the Secretary.
    (4) Inflation adjustment of basis adjustment amounts
      (A) In general
         In the case of decedents dying in a calendar year after 2010, the $1,300,000, $60,000, and $3,000,000 dollar amounts in subsections (b) and (c)(2)(B) shall each be increased by an amount equal to the product of–
        (i) such dollar amount, and
        (ii) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for such calendar year, determined by substituting ””2009““ for ””1992““ in subparagraph (B) thereof.
      (B) Rounding
         If any increase determined under subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of–
        (i) $100,000 in the case of the $1,300,000 amount,
        (ii) $5,000 in the case of the $60,000 amount, and
        (iii) $250,000 in the case of the $3,000,000 amount,
         such increase shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple thereof.
  (e) Property acquired from the decedent
     For purposes of this section, the following property shall be considered to have been acquired from the decedent:
    (1) Property acquired by bequest, devise, or inheritance, or by the decedent“s estate from the decedent.
    (2) Property transferred by the decedent during his lifetime–
      (A) to a qualified revocable trust (as defined in section 645(b)(1)), or
      (B) to any other trust with respect to which the decedent reserved the right to make any change in the enjoyment thereof through the exercise of a power to alter, amend, or terminate the trust.
    (3) Any other property passing from the decedent by reason of death to the extent that such property passed without consideration.
  (f) Coordination with section 691
     This section shall not apply to property which constitutes a right to receive an item of income in respect of a decedent under section 691.
  (g) Certain liabilities disregarded
    (1) In general
       In determining whether gain is recognized on the acquisition of property–
      (A) from a decedent by a decedent“s estate or any beneficiary other than a tax-exempt beneficiary, and
      (B) from the decedent“s estate by any beneficiary other than a tax-exempt beneficiary,
       and in determining the adjusted basis of such property, liabilities in excess of basis shall be disregarded.
    (2) Tax-exempt beneficiary
       For purposes of paragraph (1), the term ””tax-exempt beneficiary““ means–
      (A) the United States, any State or political subdivision thereof, any possession of the United States, any Indian tribal government (within the meaning of section 7871), or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing,
      (B) an organization (other than a cooperative described in section 521) which is exempt from tax imposed by chapter 1,
      (C) any foreign person or entity (within the meaning of section 168(h)(2)), and
      (D) to the extent provided in regulations, any person to whom property is transferred for the principal purpose of tax avoidance.
  (h) Regulations
     The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
