  (a) General rule
     Gross income does not include the excludable portion of payments received under–
    (1) The rural clean water program authorized by section 208(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1288(j)).
    (2) The rural abandoned mine program authorized by section 406 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1236).
    (3) The water bank program authorized by the Water Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.).
    (4) The emergency conservation measures program authorized by title IV of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978.
    (5) The agricultural conservation program authorized by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590a).
    (6) The great plains conservation program authorized by section 16 \1\N of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Policy Act (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)).
    (7) The resource conservation and development program authorized by the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act and by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (7 U.S.C. 1010; 16 U.S.C. 590a et seq.).
    (8) The forestry incentives program authorized by section 4 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103).
    (9) Any small watershed program administered by the Secretary of Agriculture which is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate to be substantially similar to the type of programs described in paragraphs (1) through (8).
    (10) Any program of a State, possession of the United States, a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or the District of Columbia under which payments are made to individuals primarily for the purpose of conserving soil, protecting or restoring the environment, improving forests, or providing a habitat for wildlife.
  (b) Excludable portion
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) In general
       The term ””excludable portion““ means that portion (or all) of a payment made to any person under any program described in subsection (a) which–
      (A) is determined by the Secretary of Agriculture to be made primarily for the purpose of conserving soil and water resources, protecting or restoring the environment, improving forests, or providing a habitat for wildlife, and
      (B) is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate as not increasing substantially the annual income derived from the property.
    (2) Payments not chargeable to capital account
       The term ””excludable portion““ does not include that portion of any payment which is properly associated with an amount which is allowable as a deduction for the taxable year in which such amount is paid or incurred.
  (c) Election for section not to apply
    (1) In general
       The taxpayer may elect not to have this section (and section 1255) apply to any excludable portion (or portion thereof).
    (2) Manner and time for making election
       Any election under paragraph (1) shall be made in the manner prescribed by the Secretary by regulations and shall be made not later than the due date prescribed by law (including extensions) for filing the return of tax under this chapter for the taxable year in which the payment was received or accrued.
  (d) Denial of double benefits
     No deduction or credit shall be allowed with respect to any expenditure which is properly associated with any amount excluded from gross income under subsection (a).
  (e) Basis of property not increased by reason of excludable payments
     Notwithstanding any provision of section 1016 to the contrary, no adjustment to basis shall be made with respect to property acquired or improved through the use of any payment, to the extent that such adjustment would reflect any amount which is excluded from gross income under subsection (a).
