  (a)    (1) The Secretary shall establish an epidemiology center in each Service area to carry out the functions described in paragraph (3).
    (2) To assist such centers in carrying out such functions, the Secretary shall perform the following:
      (A) In consultation with the Centers for Disease Control and Indian tribes, develop sets of data (which to the extent practicable, shall be consistent with the uniform data sets used by the States with respect to the year 2000 health objectives) for uniformly defining health status for purposes of the objectives specified in section 1602(b) of this title. Such sets shall consist of one or more categories of information. The Secretary shall develop formats for the uniform collecting and reporting of information on such categories.
      (B) Establish and maintain a system for monitoring the progress made toward meeting each of the health status objectives described in section 1602(b) of this title.
    (3) In consultation with Indian tribes and urban Indian communities, each area epidemiology center established under this subsection shall, with respect to such area–
      (A) collect data relating to, and monitor progress made toward meeting, each of the health status objectives described in section 1602(b) of this title using the data sets and monitoring system developed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (2);
      (B) evaluate existing delivery systems, data systems, and other systems that impact the improvement of Indian health;
      (C) assist tribes and urban Indian communities in identifying their highest priority health status objectives and the services needed to achieve such objectives, based on epidemiological data;
      (D) make recommendations for the targeting of services needed by tribal, urban, and other Indian communities;
      (E) make recommendations to improve health care delivery systems for Indians and urban Indians;
      (F) work cooperatively with tribal providers of health and social services in order to avoid duplication of existing services; and
      (G) provide technical assistance to Indian tribes and urban Indian organizations in the development of local health service priorities and incidence and prevalence rates of disease and other illness in the community.
    (4) Epidemiology centers established under this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.).
    (5) The director of the Centers for Disease Control shall provide technical assistance to the centers in carrying out the requirements of this subsection.
    (6) The Service shall assign one epidemiologist from each of its area offices to each area epidemiology center to provide such center with technical assistance necessary to carry out this subsection.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary may make grants to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and eligible intertribal consortia or Indian organizations to conduct epidemiological studies of Indian communities.
    (2) An intertribal consortia or Indian organization is eligible to receive a grant under this subsection if–
      (A) it is incorporated for the primary purpose of improving Indian health; and
      (B) it is representative of the tribes or urban Indian communities in which it is located.
    (3) An application for a grant under this subsection shall be submitted in such manner and at such time as the Secretary shall prescribe.
    (4) Applicants for grants under this subsection shall–
      (A) demonstrate the technical, administrative, and financial expertise necessary to carry out the functions described in paragraph (5);
      (B) consult and cooperate with providers of related health and social services in order to avoid duplication of existing services; and
      (C) demonstrate cooperation from Indian tribes or urban Indian organizations in the area to be served.
    (5) A grant awarded under paragraph (1) may be used to–
      (A) carry out the functions described in subsection (a)(3) of this section;
      (B) provide information to and consult with tribal leaders, urban Indian community leaders, and related health staff, on health care and health services management issues; and
      (C) provide, in collaboration with tribes and urban Indian communities, the Service with information regarding ways to improve the health status of Indian people.
    (6) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of this subsection not more than $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
