  (a) Health care delivery demonstration projects
     The Secretary, acting through the Service, is authorized to enter into contracts with, or make grants to, Indian tribes or tribal organizations for the purpose of carrying out a health care delivery demonstration project to test alternative means of delivering health care and services through health facilities to Indians.
  (b) Use of funds
     The Secretary, in approving projects pursuant to this section, may authorize funding for the construction and renovation of hospitals, health centers, health stations, and other facilities to deliver health care services and is authorized to–
    (1) waive any leasing prohibition;
    (2) permit carryover of funds appropriated for the provision of health care services;
    (3) permit the use of non-Service Federal funds and non-Federal funds;
    (4) permit the use of funds or property donated from any source for project purposes; and
    (5) provide for the reversion of donated real or personal property to the donor.
  (c) Criteria
    (1) Within 180 days after November 28, 1990, the Secretary, after consultation with Indian tribes and tribal organizations, shall develop and publish in the Federal Register criteria for the review and approval of applications submitted under this section. The Secretary may enter into a contract or award a grant under this section for projects which meet the following criteria:
      (A) There is a need for a new facility or program or the reorientation of an existing facility or program.
      (B) A significant number of Indians, including those with low health status, will be served by the project.
      (C) The project has the potential to address the health needs of Indians in an innovative manner.
      (D) The project has the potential to deliver services in an efficient and effective manner.
      (E) The project is economically viable.
      (F) The Indian tribe or tribal organization has the administrative and financial capability to administer the project.
      (G) The project is integrated with providers of related health and social services and is coordinated with, and avoids duplication of, existing services.
    (2) The Secretary may provide for the establishment of peer review panels, as necessary, to review and evaluate applications and to advise the Secretary regarding such applications using the criteria developed pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (3)      (A) On or before September 30, 1995, the Secretary shall enter into contracts or award grants under this section for a demonstration project in each of the following service units which meets the criteria specified in paragraph (1) and for which a completed application has been received by the Secretary:
        (i) Cass Lake, Minnesota.
        (ii) Clinton, Oklahoma.
        (iii) Harlem, Montana.
        (iv) Mescalero, New Mexico.
        (v) Owyhee, Nevada.
        (vi) Parker, Arizona.
        (vii) Schurz, Nevada.
        (viii) Winnebago, Nebraska.
        (ix) Ft. Yuma, California.
      (B) The Secretary may also enter into contracts or award grants under this section taking into consideration applications received under this section from all service areas. The Secretary may not award a greater number of such contracts or grants in one service area than in any other service area until there is an equal number of such contracts or grants awarded with respect to all service areas from which the Secretary receives applications during the application period (as determined by the Secretary) which meet the criteria specified in paragraph (1).
  (d) Technical assistance
     The Secretary shall provide such technical and other assistance as may be necessary to enable applicants to comply with the provisions of this section.
  (e) Service to ineligible persons
     The authority to provide services to persons otherwise ineligible for the health care benefits of the Service and the authority to extend hospital privileges in service facilities to non-Service health care practitioners as provided in section 1680c of this title may be included, subject to the terms of such section, in any demonstration project approved pursuant to this section.
  (f) Equitable treatment
     For purposes of subsection (c)(1)(A) of this section, the Secretary shall, in evaluating facilities operated under any contract entered into with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.], use the same criteria that the Secretary uses in evaluating facilities operated directly by the Service.
  (g) Equitable integration of facilities
     The Secretary shall ensure that the planning, design, construction, and renovation needs of Service and non-Service facilities which are the subject of a contract for health services entered into with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.], are fully and equitably integrated into the implementation of the health care delivery demonstration projects under this section.
  (h) Report to Congress
    (1) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the report which is required to be submitted to the Congress under section 1671 of this title for fiscal year 1997, an interim report on the findings and conclusions derived from the demonstration projects established under this section.
    (2) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the report which is required to be submitted to the Congress under section 1671 of this title for fiscal year 1999, a final report on the findings and conclusions derived from the demonstration projects established under this section, together with legislative recommendations.
