  (a) Petition for assumption of exclusive jurisdiction; approval by Secretary
     The Passamaquoddy Tribe or the Penobscot Nation may assume exclusive jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings pursuant to the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 3069) [25 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.]. Before the respective tribe or nation may assume such jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings, the respective tribe or nation shall present to the Secretary for approval a petition to assume such jurisdiction and the Secretary shall approve that petition in the manner prescribed by sections 108(a)–(c) of said Act [25 U.S.C. 1918(a)–(c)].
  (b) Consideration and determination of petition by Secretary
     Any petition to assume jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings by the Passamaquoddy Tribe or the Penobscot Nation shall be considered and determined by the Secretary in accordance with sections 108(b) and (c) of the Act [25 U.S.C. 1918(b) and (c)].
  (c) Actions or proceedings within existing jurisdiction unaffected
     Assumption or jurisdiction under this section shall not affect any action or proceeding over which a court has already assumed jurisdiction.
  (d) Reservations within section 1903(10) of this title
     For the purposes of this section, the Passamaquoddy Indian Reservation and the Penobscot Indian Reservation are ””reservations““ within section 4(10) of the Act [25 U.S.C. 1903(10)].
  (e) Indian tribe within section 1903(8) of this title; State jurisdiction over child welfare unaffected
     For the purposes of this section, the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians is an ””Indian tribe““ within section 4(8) of the Act [25 U.S.C. 1903(8)], provided, that nothing in this subsection shall alter or effect the jurisdiction of the State of Maine over child welfare matters as provided in section 1725(e)(2) of this title.
  (f) Assumption determinative of exclusive jurisdiction
     Until the Passamaquoddy Tribe or the Penobscot Nation has assumed exclusive jurisdiction over the Indian child custody proceedings pursuant to this section, the State of Maine shall have exclusive jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings of that tribe or nation.
