  (a) In general
     The Secretary is authorized to carry out the duties specified in subsection (b) of this section at such time as the Secretary makes a determination that–
    (1) in accordance with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), the State of Connecticut has entered into a binding compact with the Mohegan Tribe providing for class III tribal gaming operations (as defined in section 4(8) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 2703(8)));
    (2) the compact has been approved by the Secretary pursuant to section 11(d)(8) of such Act (25 U.S.C. 2710(d)(8)); and
    (3) pursuant to transfers carried out pursuant to the State Agreement, the United States holds title to lands described in exhibit B of the State Agreement in trust for the Mohegan Tribe to be used as the initial Indian reservation of the Mohegan Tribe.
  (b) Publication by Secretary
     If the Secretary makes a determination under subsection (a) of this section that the conditions specified in paragraphs (1) through (3) of that subsection have been met, the Secretary shall publish the determination, together with the State Agreement, in the Federal Register.
  (c) Effect of publication
    (1) In general
       Upon the publication of the determination and the State Agreement in the Federal Register pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, a transfer, waiver, release, relinquishment, or other commitment made by the Mohegan Tribe in accordance with the terms and conditions of the State Agreement shall be in full force and effect.
    (2) Approval by the United States
      (A) The United States hereby approves any transfer, waiver, release, relinquishment, or other commitment carried out pursuant to paragraph (1).
      (B) A transfer made pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with all provisions of Federal law that specifically apply to transfers of lands or natural resources from, by, or on behalf of an Indian, Indian nation, or tribe of Indians (including the Act popularly known as the ””Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790““; section 4 of the Act of July 22, 1790 (1 Stat. 137, chapter 33)). The approval of the United States made pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall apply to the transfer beginning on the date of the transfer.
  (d) Extinguishment of claims
    (1) In general
       Subject to subsections (f)(2) and (g) of this section, the following claims are hereby extinguished:
      (A) Any claim to land within the State of Connecticut based upon aboriginal title by the Mohegan Tribe.
      (B) Any other claim that the Mohegan Tribe may have with respect to any public or private lands or natural resources in Connecticut, including any claim or right based on recognized title, including–
        (i) any claim that the Mohegan Tribe may have to the tribal sequestered lands bounded out to the Tribe in 1684, consisting of some 20,480 acres lying between the Thames River, New London bounds, Norwich bounds, and Colchester bounds;
        (ii) any claim that the Mohegan Tribe may have based on a survey conducted under the authority of the Connecticut General Assembly in 1736 of lands reserved and sequestered by the General Assembly for the sole use and improvement of the Mohegan Indian Tribe; and
        (iii) any claim that the Mohegan Tribe may have based on any action by the State carried out in 1860 or 1861 or otherwise made by the State to allot, reallot, or confirm any lands of the Mohegan Tribe to individual Indians or other persons.
    (2) Approval by the United States
       An extinguishment made pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with all provisions of Federal law that specifically apply to transfers of lands or natural resources from, by, or on behalf of an Indian, Indian nation, or tribe of Indians (including the Act popularly known as the ””Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790““; section 4 of the Act of July 22, 1790 (1 Stat. 137, chapter 33)).
  (e) Transfers
     Subject to subsection (g) of this section, any transfer of lands or natural resources located within the State of Connecticut, including any such transfer made pursuant to any applicable Federal or State law (including any applicable treaty), made by, from, or on behalf of the Mohegan Tribe or any predecessor or successor in interest of the Mohegan Tribe shall be deemed to be in full force and effect, as provided in subsection (c)(1) of this section.
  (f) Limitation
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2) and subject to subsection (g) of this section, by virtue of the approval by the United States under this section of a transfer of land or the extinguishment of aboriginal title, any claim by the Mohegan Tribe against the United States, any State or political subdivision of a State, or any other person or entity, by the Mohegan Tribe, that–
      (A) arises after the transfer or extinguishment is carried out; and
      (B) is based on any interest in or right involving any claim to lands or natural resources described in this section, including claims for trespass damages or claims for use and occupancy,
       shall, beginning on the date of the transfer of land or the extinguishment of aboriginal title, be considered an extinguished claim.
    (2) Exception
       The limitation under paragraph (1) shall not apply to any interest in lands or natural resources that is lawfully acquired by the Mohegan Tribe or a member of the Mohegan Tribe after the applicable date specified in paragraph (1).
  (g) Statutory construction
    (1) Aboriginal interests
       Nothing in this section may be construed to extinguish any aboriginal right, title, interest, or claim to lands or natural resources, to the extent that such right, title, interest, or claim is an excepted interest, as defined under section 1(a) of the State Agreement.
    (2) Personal claims
       Nothing in this section may be construed to offset or eliminate the personal claim of any individual Indian if the individual Indian pursues such claim under any law of general applicability.
