  (a) General rule
     Except as otherwise provided by regulations, for purposes of this title–
    (1) if a domestic corporation and a foreign corporation are stapled entities, the foreign corporation shall be treated as a domestic corporation.
    (2) in applying section 1563, stock in a second corporation which constitutes a stapled interest with respect to stock of a first corporation shall be treated as owned by such first corporation, and
    (3) in applying subchapter M for purposes of determining whether any stapled entity is a regulated investment company or a real estate investment trust, all entities which are stapled entities with respect to each other shall be treated as 1 entity.
  (b) Secretary to prescribe regulations
     The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to prevent avoidance or evasion of Federal income tax through the use of stapled entities. Such regulations may include (but shall not be limited to) regulations providing the extent to which 1 of such entities shall be treated as owning the other entity (to the extent of the stapled interest) and regulations providing that any tax imposed on the foreign corporation referred to in subsection (a)(1) may, if not paid by such corporation, be collected from the domestic corporation referred to in such subsection or the shareholders of such foreign corporation.
  (c) Definitions
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) Entity
       The term ””entity““ means any corporation, partnership, trust, association, estate, or other form of carrying on a business or activity.
    (2) Stapled entities
       The term ””stapled entities““ means any group of 2 or more entities if more than 50 percent in value of the beneficial ownership in each of such entities consists of stapled interests.
    (3) Stapled interests
       Two or more interests are stapled interests if, by reason of form of ownership, restrictions on transfer, or other terms or conditions, in connection with the transfer of 1 of such interests the other such interests are also transferred or required to be transferred.
  (d) Special rule for treaties
     Nothing in section 894 or 7852(d) or in any other provision of law shall be construed as permitting an exemption, by reason of any treaty obligation of the United States heretofore or hereafter entered into, from the provisions of this section.
  (e) Subsection (a)(1) not to apply in certain cases
    (1) In general
       Subsection (a)(1) shall not apply if it is established to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the domestic corporation and the foreign corporation referred to in such subsection are foreign owned.
    (2) Foreign owned
       For purposes of paragraph (1), a corporation is foreign owned if less than 50 percent of–
      (A) the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation entitled to vote, and
      (B) the total value of the stock of the corporation,
       is held directly (or indirectly through applying paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 958(a) and paragraph (4) of section 318(a)) by United States persons (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)).
