  (a) Establishment
     There is established within the Department of the Interior a Commission to be known as the National Indian Gaming Commission.
  (b) Composition; investigation; term of office; removal
    (1) The Commission shall be composed of three full-time members who shall be appointed as follows:
      (A) a Chairman, who shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
      (B) two associate members who shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
    (2)      (A) The Attorney General shall conduct a background investigation on any person considered for appointment to the Commission.
      (B) The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the name and other information the Secretary deems pertinent regarding a nominee for membership on the Commission and shall allow a period of not less than thirty days for receipt of public comment.
    (3) Not more than two members of the Commission shall be of the same political party. At least two members of the Commission shall be enrolled members of any Indian tribe.
    (4)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term of office of the members of the Commission shall be three years.
      (B) Of the initial members of the Commission–
        (i) two members, including the Chairman, shall have a term of office of three years; and
        (ii) one member shall have a term of office of one year.
    (5) No individual shall be eligible for any appointment to, or to continue service on, the Commission, who–
      (A) has been convicted of a felony or gaming offense;
      (B) has any financial interest in, or management responsibility for, any gaming activity; or
      (C) has a financial interest in, or management responsibility for, any management contract approved pursuant to section 2711 of this title.
    (6) A Commissioner may only be removed from office before the expiration of the term of office of the member by the President (or, in the case of associate member, by the Secretary) for neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, or for other good cause shown.
  (c) Vacancies
     Vacancies occurring on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. A member may serve after the expiration of his term of office until his successor has been appointed, unless the member has been removed for cause under subsection (b)(6) of this section.
  (d) Quorum
     Two members of the Commission, at least one of which is the Chairman or Vice Chairman, shall constitute a quorum.
  (e) Vice Chairman
     The Commission shall select, by majority vote, one of the members of the Commission to serve as Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman shall serve as Chairman during meetings of the Commission in the absence of the Chairman.
  (f) Meetings
     The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman or a majority of its members, but shall meet at least once every 4 months.
  (g) Compensation
    (1) The Chairman of the Commission shall be paid at a rate equal to that of level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.
    (2) The associate members of the Commission shall each be paid at a rate equal to that of level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5.
    (3) All members of the Commission shall be reimbursed in accordance with title 5 for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
