  (a) Omitted
  (b) Role of Director
     Applications for grants under this subchapter, and all application modifications, shall be reviewed and approved by personnel under the direction and control of the Director of the Office of Indian Education Programs. Required reports shall be submitted to education personnel under the direction and control of the Director of such Office.
  (c) Application of Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act
     All provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, 105, 109, and 110 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450c et seq.) [25 U.S.C. 450c, 450d, 450e, 450j, 450m, 450m–1], except those provisions pertaining to indirect costs and length of contract, shall apply to grants provided under this subchapter.
  (d) Regulations
     The Secretary is authorized to issue regulations relating to the discharge of duties specifically assigned to the Secretary by this subchapter. In all other matters relating to the details of planning, development, implementing, and evaluating grants under this subchapter, the Secretary shall not issue regulations. Regulations issued pursuant to this subchapter shall not have the standing of a Federal statute for the purposes of judicial review.
  (e) Retrocession
     Whenever an Indian tribe requests retrocession of any program for which assistance is provided under this subchapter, such retrocession shall become effective upon a date specified by the Secretary not more than 120 days after the date on which the tribe requests the retrocession, or such later date as may be mutually agreed upon by the Secretary and the tribe. If such a program is retroceded, the Secretary shall provide to any Indian tribe served by such program at least the same quantity and quality of services that would have been provided under such program at the level of funding provided under this subchapter prior to the retrocession. The tribal governing body requesting the retrocession shall specify whether the retrocession shall be to a contract administered by the tribe, or a tribal entity, under the authority of the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.] or to a Bureau administered program.
  (f) Definitions
     For the purposes of this subchapter:
    (1) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
    (2) The terms ””Indian““ and ””Indian tribe““ have the same meaning given those terms in sections \1\N 4(d) and (e), respectively, of the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act [25 U.S.C. 450b(d), (e)].
