  (a) Scholarship agreement
     Each tribal member receiving a scholarship under this subchapter shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Secretary of Education and the tribal government awarding such scholarship, under which such member agrees–
    (1) to utilize the proceeds of such scholarship to pursue a course of study which meets the requirements of the educational institution in which the student is enrolled for an undergraduate or postbaccalaureate degree;
    (2) upon the acquisition of such degree, to work, one year for each year of financial assistance under this subchapter, on the Indian reservation in employment related to the course of study pursued which will support economic development initiatives on such reservation; and
    (3) to maintain satisfactory academic progress, as determined in accordance with section 484(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1091(c)], while in an undergraduate or postbaccalaureate program.
  (b) Repayments
     Each tribal member found by the Secretary of Education to be in noncompliance with the agreement pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be required to repay–
    (1) 100 percent of the total amount of scholarships awarded under this subchapter if such tribal member does not work pursuant to such agreement; or
    (2) a pro rata portion of the total amount of scholarships awarded under this subchapter, as determined by the Secretary of Education, if such tribal member worked pursuant to such agreement but less than the time period required thereunder.
  (c) Waiver and suspension of service agreement
    (1) Waiver
       A federally recognized Indian tribe may, by formal action, waive the service agreement of a tribal member for just cause, as determined in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. The tribe shall notify the Secretary in writing of any waiver granted under this subsection.
    (2) Suspension
       The obligation of a tribal member to perform services under this subchapter–
      (A) shall be suspended for not more than 18 months if, at the request of the tribal member, the tribe determines that there are no employment opportunities available in any applicable area; and
      (B) shall be suspended if the tribal member ceases to attend an institution of higher education as a consequence of an institutional determination of unsatisfactory performance.
       If, at the end of a period of suspension under subparagraph (A), there are still no employment opportunities available which fulfill the requirements of this subchapter, the tribal member“s obligations under the agreement shall terminate. A suspension under subparagraph (B) shall be reviewed by the tribe annually, but may be continued indefinitely.
  (d) Disclaimer
     No scholarship awarded pursuant to this subchapter shall be considered in determining eligibility for student assistance under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq., 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.].
  (e) Limitation
     Any tribal member selected by an Indian tribe to receive a scholarship under this subchapter shall be eligible to receive a $10,000 scholarship for each academic year of postsecondary education, except that no such member shall receive scholarship assistance under this subchapter for more than 4 years of postsecondary education (including postbaccalaureate).
  (f) Cost of attendance
     Calculation of the cost of attendance for the tribal member shall include all costs as determined by the tribe for the purposes of fulfilling the policy of this subchapter.
  (g) Additional requirements
     Any tribal member seeking a loan under this subchapter shall apply for and accept the maximum financial aid available from other sources. However, for purposes of determining eligibility, loans provided under this program may not be considered in needs analysis under any other Federal law, and may not penalize tribal members in determining eligibility for other funds.
  (h) Applications for assistance
     Any federally recognized Indian tribe desiring a grant under this subchapter shall submit an application to the Secretary of Education at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. Each such application shall–
    (1) describe the shortages on the reservation of such Indian tribe of professionally trained tribal members necessary to support economic development initiatives on such reservation;
    (2) provide assurances that the Indian tribe will assist in employment placement on the reservation of tribal members receiving scholarship assistance under this subchapter; and
    (3) provide assurances that any tribal member performing work pursuant to this subchapter will be provided compensation, benefits, and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as any other employee working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.
