  (a) In general
     There is hereby imposed a tax on any liquid used during any calendar quarter by any person as a fuel in a vessel in commercial waterway transportation.
  (b) Amount of tax
    (1) In general
       The rate of the tax imposed by subsection (a) is the sum of–
      (A) the Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate,
      (B) the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate, and
      (C) the deficit reduction rate.
    (2) Rates
       For purposes of paragraph (1)–
      (A) The Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate is the rate determined in accordance with the following table:
          
            Before 1990D10 cents  
            During 1990D11 cents  
            During 1991D13 cents  
            During 1992D15 cents  
            During 1993D17 cents  
            During 1994D19 cents  
            After 1994D20 cents.
      (B) The Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate is 0.1 cent per gallon.
      (C) The deficit reduction rate is–
        (i) 3.3 cents per gallon after December 31, 2004, and before July 1, 2005,
        (ii) 2.3 cents per gallon after June 30, 2005, and before January 1, 2007, and
        (iii) 0 after December 31, 2006.
    (3) Exception for fuel on which Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate separately imposed
       The Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate under paragraph (2)(B) shall not apply to the use of any fuel if tax was imposed with respect to such fuel under section 4041(d) or 4081 at the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate.
    (4) Termination of Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate
       The Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate under paragraph (2)(B) shall not apply during any period during which the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund financing rate under section 4081 does not apply.
  (c) Exemptions
    (1) Deep-draft ocean-going vessels
       The tax imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any vessel designed primarily for use on the high seas which has a draft of more than 12 feet.
    (2) Passenger vessels
       The tax imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any vessel used primarily for the transportation of persons.
    (3) Use by State or local government in transporting property in a state or local business
       Subparagraph (B) of subsection (d)(1) shall not apply with respect to use by a State or political subdivision thereof.
    (4) Use in moving lash and seabee ocean-going barges
       The tax imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to use for movement by tug of exclusively LASH (Lighter-aboard-ship) and SEABEE ocean-going barges released by their ocean-going carriers solely to pick up or deliver international cargoes.
  (d) Definitions
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) Commercial waterway transportation
       The term ””commercial waterway transportation““ means any use of a vessel on any inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States–
      (A) in the business of transporting property for compensation or hire, or
      (B) in transporting property in the business of the owner, lessee, or operator of the vessel (other than fish or other aquatic animal life caught on the voyage).
    (2) Inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States
       The term ””inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States““ means any inland or intracoastal waterway of the United States which is described in section 206 of the Inland Waterways Revenue Act of 1978.
    (3) Person
       The term ””person““ includes the United States, a State, a political subdivision of a State, or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing.
  (e) Date for filing return
     The date for filing the return of the tax imposed by this section for any calendar quarter shall be the last day of the first month following such quarter.
