  (a) General rule
     For purposes of section 38, the enhanced oil recovery credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to 15 percent of the taxpayer“s qualified enhanced oil recovery costs for such taxable year.
  (b) Phase-out of credit as crude oil prices increase
    (1) In general
       The amount of the credit determined under subsection (a) for any taxable year shall be reduced by an amount which bears the same ratio to the amount of such credit (determined without regard to this paragraph) as–
      (A) the amount by which the reference price for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the taxable year begins exceeds $28, bears to
      (B) $6.
    (2) Reference price
       For purposes of this subsection, the term ””reference price““ means, with respect to any calendar year, the reference price determined for such calendar year under section 45K(d)(2)(C).
    (3) Inflation adjustment
      (A) In general
         In the case of any taxable year beginning in a calendar year after 1991, there shall be substituted for the $28 amount under paragraph (1)(A) an amount equal to the product of–
        (i) $28, multiplied by
        (ii) the inflation adjustment factor for such calendar year.
      (B) Inflation adjustment factor
         The term ””inflation adjustment factor““ means, with respect to any calendar year, a fraction the numerator of which is the GNP implicit price deflator for the preceding calendar year and the denominator of which is the GNP implicit price deflator for 1990. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ””GNP implicit price deflator““ means the first revision of the implicit price deflator for the gross national product as computed and published by the Secretary of Commerce. Not later than April 1 of any calendar year, the Secretary shall publish the inflation adjustment factor for the preceding calendar year.
  (c) Qualified enhanced oil recovery costs
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) In general
       The term ””qualified enhanced oil recovery costs““ means any of the following:
      (A) Any amount paid or incurred during the taxable year for tangible property–
        (i) which is an integral part of a qualified enhanced oil recovery project, and
        (ii) with respect to which depreciation (or amortization in lieu of depreciation) is allowable under this chapter.
      (B) Any intangible drilling and development costs–
        (i) which are paid or incurred in connection with a qualified enhanced oil recovery project, and
        (ii) with respect to which the taxpayer may make an election under section 263(c) for the taxable year.
      (C) Any qualified tertiary injectant expenses (as defined in section 193(b)) which are paid or incurred in connection with a qualified enhanced oil recovery project and for which a deduction is allowable for the taxable year.
      (D) Any amount which is paid or incurred during the taxable year to construct a gas treatment plant which–
        (i) is located in the area of the United States (within the meaning of section 638(1)) lying north of 64 degrees North latitude,
        (ii) prepares Alaska natural gas for transportation through a pipeline with a capacity of at least 2,000,000,000,000 Btu of natural gas per day, and
        (iii) produces carbon dioxide which is injected into hydrocarbon-bearing geological formations.
    (2) Qualified enhanced oil recovery project
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The term ””qualified enhanced oil recovery project““ means any project–
        (i) which involves the application (in accordance with sound engineering principles) of 1 or more tertiary recovery methods (as defined in section 193(b)(3)) which can reasonably be expected to result in more than an insignificant increase in the amount of crude oil which will ultimately be recovered,
        (ii) which is located within the United States (within the meaning of section 638(1)), and
        (iii) with respect to which the first injection of liquids, gases, or other matter commences after December 31, 1990.
      (B) Certification
         A project shall not be treated as a qualified enhanced oil recovery project unless the operator submits to the Secretary (at such times and in such manner as the Secretary provides) a certification from a petroleum engineer that the project meets (and continues to meet) the requirements of subparagraph (A).
    (3) At-risk limitation
       For purposes of determining qualified enhanced oil recovery costs, rules similar to the rules of section 49(a)(1), section 49(a)(2), and section 49(b) shall apply.
    (4) Special rule for certain gas displacement projects
       For purposes of this section, immiscible non-hydrocarbon gas displacement shall be treated as a tertiary recovery method under section 193(b)(3).
    (5) Alaska natural gas
       For purposes of paragraph (1)(D)–
      (A) In general
         The term ””Alaska natural gas““ means natural gas entering the Alaska natural gas pipeline (as defined in section 168(i)(16) (determined without regard to subparagraph (B) thereof)) which is produced from a well–
        (i) located in the area of the State of Alaska lying north of 64 degrees North latitude, determined by excluding the area of the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge (including the continental shelf thereof within the meaning of section 638(1)), and
        (ii) pursuant to the applicable State and Federal pollution prevention, control, and permit requirements from such area (including the continental shelf thereof within the meaning of section 638(1)).
      (B) Natural gas
         The term ””natural gas““ has the meaning given such term by section 613A(e)(2).
  (d) Other rules
    (1) Disallowance of deduction
       Any deduction allowable under this chapter for any costs taken into account in computing the amount of the credit determined under subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of such credit attributable to such costs.
    (2) Basis adjustments
       For purposes of this subtitle, if a credit is determined under this section for any expenditure with respect to any property, the increase in the basis of such property which would (but for this subsection) result from such expenditure shall be reduced by the amount of the credit so allowed.
  (e) Election to have credit not apply
    (1) In general
       A taxpayer may elect to have this section not apply for any taxable year.
    (2) Time for making election
       An election under paragraph (1) for any taxable year may be made (or revoked) at any time before the expiration of the 3-year period beginning on the last date prescribed by law for filing the return for such taxable year (determined without regard to extensions).
    (3) Manner of making election
       An election under paragraph (1) (or revocation thereof) shall be made in such manner as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.
