  (a) In general
     If the taxpayer elects the application of this section, there shall be allowed as a deduction for any taxable year the amount of payments made by the taxpayer to a Nuclear Decommissioning Reserve Fund (hereinafter referred to as the ””Fund““) during such taxable year.
  (b) Limitation on amounts paid into Fund
     The amount which a taxpayer may pay into the Fund for any taxable year shall not exceed the ruling amount applicable to such taxable year.
  (c) Income and deductions of the taxpayer
    (1) Inclusion of amounts distributed
       There shall be includible in the gross income of the taxpayer for any taxable year–
      (A) any amount distributed from the Fund during such taxable year, other than any amount distributed to pay costs described in subsection (e)(4)(B), and
      (B) except to the extent provided in regulations, amounts properly includible in gross income in the case of any deemed distribution under subsection (e)(6), any termination under subsection (e)(7), or the disposition of any interest in the nuclear powerplant.
    (2) Deduction when economic performance occurs
       In addition to any deduction under subsection (a), there shall be allowable as a deduction for any taxable year the amount of the nuclear decommissioning costs with respect to which economic performance (within the meaning of section 461(h)(2)) occurs during such taxable year.
  (d) Ruling amount
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) Request required
       No deduction shall be allowed for any payment to the Fund unless the taxpayer requests, and receives, from the Secretary a schedule of ruling amounts. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the taxpayer shall request a schedule of ruling amounts upon each renewal of the operating license of the nuclear powerplant.
    (2) Ruling amount
       The term ””ruling amount““ means, with respect to any taxable year, the amount which the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) to be necessary to–
      (A) fund the total nuclear decommissioning costs with respect to such power plant over the estimated useful life of such power plant, and
      (B) prevent any excessive funding of such costs or the funding of such costs at a rate more rapid than level funding, taking into account such discount rates as the Secretary deems appropriate.
    (3) Review of amount
       The Secretary shall at least once during the useful life of the nuclear powerplant (or, more frequently, upon the request of the taxpayer) review, and revise if necessary, the schedule of ruling amounts determined under paragraph (1).
  (e) Nuclear Decommissioning Reserve Fund
    (1) In general
       Each taxpayer who elects the application of this section shall establish a Nuclear Decommissioning Reserve Fund with respect to each nuclear powerplant to which such election applies.
    (2) Taxation of Fund
      (A) In general
         There is hereby imposed on the gross income of the Fund for any taxable year a tax at the rate of 20 percent, except that–
        (i) there shall not be included in the gross income of the Fund any payment to the Fund with respect to which a deduction is allowable under subsection (a), and
        (ii) there shall be allowed as a deduction to the Fund any amount paid by the Fund which is described in paragraph (4)(B) (other than an amount paid to the taxpayer) and which would be deductible under this chapter for purposes of determining the taxable income of a corporation.
      (B) Tax in lieu of other taxation
         The tax imposed by subparagraph (A) shall be in lieu of any other taxation under this subtitle of the income from assets in the Fund.
      (C) Fund treated as corporation
         For purposes of subtitle F–
        (i) the Fund shall be treated as if it were a corporation, and
        (ii) any tax imposed by this paragraph shall be treated as a tax imposed by section 11.
    (3) Contributions to Fund
       Except as provided in subsection (f), the Fund shall not accept any payments (or other amounts) other than payments with respect to which a deduction is allowable under subsection (a).
    (4) Use of Fund
       The Fund shall be used exclusively for–
      (A) satisfying, in whole or in part, any liability of any person contributing to the Fund for the decommissioning of a nuclear powerplant (or unit thereof),
      (B) to pay administrative costs (including taxes) and other incidental expenses of the Fund (including legal, accounting, actuarial, and trustee expenses) in connection with the operation of the Fund, and
      (C) to the extent that a portion of the Fund is not currently needed for purposes described in subparagraph (A) or (B), making investments.
    (5) Prohibitions against self-dealing
       Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, for purposes of section 4951 (and so much of this title as relates to such section), the Fund shall be treated in the same manner as a trust described in section 501(c)(21).
    (6) Disqualification of Fund
       In any case in which the Fund violates any provision of this section or section 4951, the Secretary may disqualify such Fund from the application of this section. In any case to which this paragraph applies, the Fund shall be treated as having distributed all of its funds on the date such determination takes effect.
    (7) Termination upon completion
       Upon substantial completion of the nuclear decommissioning of the nuclear powerplant with respect to which a Fund relates, the taxpayer shall terminate such Fund.
  (f) Transfers into qualified funds
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding subsection (b), any taxpayer maintaining a Fund to which this section applies with respect to a nuclear power plant may transfer into such Fund not more than an amount equal to the present value of the portion of the total nuclear decommissioning costs with respect to such nuclear power plant previously excluded for such nuclear power plant under subsection (d)(2)(A) as in effect immediately before the date of the enactment of this subsection.
    (2) Deduction for amounts transferred
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the deduction allowed by subsection (a) for any transfer permitted by this subsection shall be allowed ratably over the remaining estimated useful life (within the meaning of subsection (d)(2)(A)) of the nuclear power plant beginning with the taxable year during which the transfer is made.
      (B) Denial of deduction for previously deducted amounts
         No deduction shall be allowed for any transfer under this subsection of an amount for which a deduction was previously allowed to the taxpayer (or a predecessor) or a corresponding amount was not included in gross income of the taxpayer (or a predecessor). For purposes of the preceding sentence, a ratable portion of each transfer shall be treated as being from previously deducted or excluded amounts to the extent thereof.
      (C) Transfers of qualified funds
         If–
        (i) any transfer permitted by this subsection is made to any Fund to which this section applies, and
        (ii) such Fund is transferred thereafter,
         any deduction under this subsection for taxable years ending after the date that such Fund is transferred shall be allowed to the transferor for the taxable year which includes such date.
      (D) Special rules
        (i) Gain or loss not recognized on transfers to Fund
           No gain or loss shall be recognized on any transfer described in paragraph (1).
        (ii) Transfers of appreciated property to Fund
           If appreciated property is transferred in a transfer described in paragraph (1), the amount of the deduction shall not exceed the adjusted basis of such property.
    (3) New ruling amount required
       Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any transfer unless the taxpayer requests from the Secretary a new schedule of ruling amounts in connection with such transfer.
    (4) No basis in qualified funds
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the taxpayer“s basis in any Fund to which this section applies shall not be increased by reason of any transfer permitted by this subsection.
  (g) Nuclear powerplant
     For purposes of this section, the term ””nuclear powerplant““ includes any unit thereof.
  (h) Time when payments deemed made
     For purposes of this section, a taxpayer shall be deemed to have made a payment to the Fund on the last day of a taxable year if such payment is made on account of such taxable year and is made within 2\1/2\ months after the close of such taxable year.
