  (a) Tax-exempt foundations
     There is hereby imposed on each private foundation which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) for the taxable year, with respect to the carrying on its activities, a tax equal to 2 percent of the net investment income of such foundation for the taxable year.
  (b) Taxable foundations
     There is hereby imposed on each private foundation which is not exempt from taxation under section 501(a) for the taxable year, with respect to the carrying on of its activities, a tax equal to–
    (1) the amount (if any) by which the sum of (A) the tax imposed under subsection (a) (computed as if such subsection applied to such private foundation for the taxable year), plus (B) the amount of the tax which would have been imposed under section 511 for the taxable year if such private foundation had been exempt from taxation under section 501(a), exceeds
    (2) the tax imposed under subtitle A on such private foundation for the taxable year.
  (c) Net investment income defined
    (1) In general
       For purposes of subsection (a), the net investment income is the amount by which (A) the sum of the gross investment income and the capital gain net income exceeds (B) the deductions allowed by paragraph (3). Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this section, net investment income shall be determined under the principles of subtitle A.
    (2) Gross investment income
       For purposes of paragraph (1), the term ””gross investment income““ means the gross amount of income from interest, dividends, rents, payments with respect to securities loans (as defined in section 512(a)(5)), and royalties, but not including any such income to the extent included in computing the tax imposed by section 511. Such term shall also include income from sources similar to those in the preceding sentence.
    (3) Deductions
      (A) In general
         For purposes of paragraph (1), there shall be allowed as a deduction all the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred for the production or collection of gross investment income or for the management, conservation, or maintenance of property held for the production of such income, determined with the modifications set forth in subparagraph (B).
      (B) Modifications
         For purposes of subparagraph (A)–
        (i) The deduction provided by section 167 shall be allowed, but only on the basis of the straight line method of depreciation.
        (ii) The deduction for depletion provided by section 611 shall be allowed, but such deduction shall be determined without regard to section 613 (relating to percentage depletion).
    (4) Capital gains and losses
       For purposes of paragraph (1) in determining capital gain net income–
      (A) There shall not be taken into account any gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of property to the extent that such gain or loss is taken into account for purposes of computing the tax imposed by section 511.
      (B) The basis for determining gain in the case of property held by the private foundation on December 31, 1969, and continuously thereafter to the date of its disposition shall be deemed to be not less than the fair market value of such property on December 31, 1969.
      (C) Losses from sales or other dispositions of property shall be allowed only to the extent of gains from such sales or other dispositions, and there shall be no capital loss carryovers or carrybacks.
      (D) Except to the extent provided by regulation, under rules similar to the rules of section 1031 (including the exception under subsection (a)(2) thereof), no gain or loss shall be taken into account with respect to any portion of property used for a period of not less than 1 year for a purpose or function constituting the basis of the private foundation“s exemption if the entire property is exchanged immediately following such period solely for property of like kind which is to be used primarily for a purpose or function constituting the basis for such foundation“s exemption.
    (5) Tax-exempt income
       For purposes of this section, net investment income shall be determined by applying section 103 (relating to State and local bonds) and section 265 (relating to expenses and interest relating to tax-exempt income).
  (d) Exemption for certain operating foundations
    (1) In general
       No tax shall be imposed by this section on any private foundation which is an exempt operating foundation for the taxable year.
    (2) Exempt operating foundation
       For purposes of this subsection, the term ””exempt operating foundation““ means, with respect to any taxable year, any private foundation if–
      (A) such foundation is an operating foundation (as defined in section 4942(j)(3)),
      (B) such foundation has been publicly supported for at least 10 taxable years,
      (C) at all times during the taxable year, the governing body of such foundation–
        (i) consists of individuals at least 75 percent of whom are not disqualified individuals, and
        (ii) is broadly representative of the general public, and
      (D) at no time during the taxable year does such foundation have an officer who is a disqualified individual.
    (3) Definitions
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) Publicly supported
         A private foundation is publicly supported for a taxable year if it meets the requirements of section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) or 509(a)(2) for such taxable year.
      (B) Disqualified individual
         The term ””disqualified individual““ means, with respect to any private foundation, an individual who is–
        (i) a substantial contributor to the foundation,
        (ii) an owner of more than 20 percent of–
          (I) the total combined voting power of a corporation,
          (II) the profits interest of a partnership, or
          (III) the beneficial interest of a trust or unincorporated enterprise,
              which is a substantial contributor to the foundation, or
        (iii) a member of the family of any individual described in clause (i) or (ii).
      (C) Substantial contributor
         The term ””substantial contributor““ means a person who is described in section 507(d)(2).
      (D) Family
         The term ””family““ has the meaning given to such term by section 4946(d).
      (E) Constructive ownership
         The rules of paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 4946(a) shall apply for purposes of subparagraph (B)(ii).
  (e) Reduction in tax where private foundation meets certain distribution requirements
    (1) In general
       In the case of any private foundation which meets the requirements of paragraph (2) for any taxable year, subsection (a) shall be applied with respect to such taxable year by substituting ””1 percent““ for ””2 percent““.
    (2) Requirements
       A private foundation meets the requirements of this paragraph for any taxable year if–
      (A) the amount of the qualifying distributions made by the private foundation during such taxable year equals or exceeds the sum of–
        (i) an amount equal to the assets of such foundation for such taxable year multiplied by the average percentage payout for the base period, plus
        (ii) 1 percent of the net investment income of such foundation for such taxable year, and
      (B) such private foundation was not liable for tax under section 4942 with respect to any year in the base period.
    (3) Average percentage payout for base period
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The average percentage payout for the base period is the average of the percentage payouts for taxable years in the base period.
      (B) Percentage payout
         The term ””percentage payout““ means, with respect to any taxable year, the percentage determined by dividing–
        (i) the amount of the qualifying distributions made by the private foundation during the taxable year, by
        (ii) the assets of the private foundation for the taxable year.
      (C) Special rule where tax reduced under this subsection
         For purposes of this paragraph, if the amount of the tax imposed by this section for any taxable year in the base period is reduced by reason of this subsection, the amount of the qualifying distributions made by the private foundation during such year shall be reduced by the amount of such reduction in tax.
    (4) Base period
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) In general
         The term ””base period““ means, with respect to any taxable year, the 5 taxable years preceding such taxable year.
      (B) New private foundations, etc.
         If an organization has not been a private foundation throughout the base period referred to in subparagraph (A), the base period shall consist of the taxable years during which such foundation has been in existence.
    (5) Other definitions
       For purposes of this subsection–
      (A) Qualifying distribution
         The term ””qualifying distribution““ has the meaning given such term by section 4942(g).
      (B) Assets
         The assets of a private foundation for any taxable year shall be treated as equal to the excess determined under section 4942(e)(1).
    (6) Treatment of successor organizations, etc.
       In the case of–
      (A) a private foundation which is a successor to another private foundation, this subsection shall be applied with respect to such successor by taking into account the experience of such other foundation, and
      (B) a merger, reorganization, or division of a private foundation, this subsection shall be applied under regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
