  (a) Imposition of tax
     There is hereby imposed a tax on every real estate investment trust for each calendar year equal to 4 percent of the excess (if any) of–
    (1) the required distribution for such calendar year, over
    (2) the distributed amount for such calendar year.
  (b) Required distribution
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) In general
       The term ””required distribution““ means, with respect to any calendar year, the sum of–
      (A) 85 percent of the real estate investment trust“s ordinary income for such calendar year, plus
      (B) 95 percent of the real estate investment trust“s capital gain net income for such calendar year.
    (2) Increase by prior year shortfall
       The amount determined under paragraph (1) for any calendar year shall be increased by the excess (if any) of–
      (A) the grossed up required distribution for the preceding calendar year, over
      (B) the distributed amount for such preceding calendar year.
    (3) Grossed up required distribution
       The grossed up required distribution for any calendar year is the required distribution for such year determined–
      (A) with the application of paragraph (2) to such taxable year, and
      (B) by substituting ””100 percent““ for each percentage set forth in paragraph (1).
  (c) Distributed amount
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) In general
       The term ””distributed amount““ means, with respect to any calendar year, the sum of–
      (A) the deduction for dividends paid (as defined in section 561) during such calendar year (but computed without regard to that portion of such deduction which is attributable to the amount excluded under section 857(b)(2)(D)), and
      (B) any amount on which tax is imposed under subsection (b)(1) or (b)(3)(A) of section 857 for any taxable year ending in such calendar year.
    (2) Increase by prior year overdistribution
       The amount determined under paragraph (1) for any calendar year shall be increased by the excess (if any) of–
      (A) the distributed amount for the preceding calendar year (determined with the application of this paragraph to such preceding calendar year), over
      (B) the grossed up required distribution for such preceding calendar year.
    (3) Determination of dividends paid
       The amount of the dividends paid during any calendar year shall be determined without regard to the provisions of section 858.
  (d) Time for payment of tax
     The tax imposed by this section for any calendar year shall be paid on or before March 15 of the following calendar year.
  (e) Definitions and special rules
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) Ordinary income
       The term ””ordinary income““ means the real estate investment trust taxable income (as defined in section 857(b)(2)) determined–
      (A) without regard to subparagraph (B) of section 857(b)(2),
      (B) by not taking into account any gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset, and
      (C) by treating the calendar year as the trust“s taxable year.
    (2) Capital gain net income
      (A) In general
         The term ””capital gain net income““ has the meaning given such term by section 1222(9) (determined by treating the calendar year as the trust“s taxable year).
      (B) Reduction for net ordinary loss
         The amount determined under subparagraph (A) shall be reduced by the amount of the trust“s net ordinary loss for the taxable year.
      (C) Net ordinary loss
         For purposes of this paragraph, the net ordinary loss for the calendar year is the amount which would be net operating loss of the trust for the calendar year if the amount of such loss were determined in the same manner as ordinary income is determined under paragraph (1).
    (3) Treatment of deficiency distributions
       In the case of any deficiency dividend (as defined in section 860(f))–
      (A) such dividend shall be taken into account when paid without regard to section 860, and
      (B) any income giving rise to the adjustment shall be treated as arising when the dividend is paid.
