  (a) Imposition of tax
     There is hereby imposed a tax on every regulated investment company for each calendar year equal to 4 percent of the excess (if any) of–
    (1) the required distribution for such calendar year, over
    (2) the distributed amount for such calendar year.
  (b) Required distribution
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) In general
       The term ””required distribution““ means, with respect to any calendar year, the sum of–
      (A) 98 percent of the regulated investment company“s ordinary income for such calendar year, plus
      (B) 98 percent of the regulated investment company“s capital gain net income for the 1-year period ending on October 31 of such calendar year.
    (2) Increase by prior year shortfall
       The amount determined under paragraph (1) for any calendar year shall be increased by the excess (if any) of–
      (A) the grossed up required distribution for the preceding calendar year, over
      (B) the distributed amount for such preceding calendar year.
    (3) Grossed up required distribution
       The grossed up required distribution for any calendar year is the required distribution for such year determined–
      (A) with the application of paragraph (2) to such taxable year, and
      (B) by substituting ””100 percent““ for each percentage set forth in paragraph (1).
  (c) Distributed amount
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) In general
       The term ””distributed amount““ means, with respect to any calendar year, the sum of–
      (A) the deduction for dividends paid (as defined in section 561) during such calendar year, and
      (B) any amount on which tax is imposed under subsection (b)(1) or (b)(3)(A) of section 852 for any taxable year ending in such calendar year.
    (2) Increase by prior year overdistribution
       The amount determined under paragraph (1) for any calendar year shall be increased by the excess (if any) of–
      (A) the distributed amount for the preceding calendar year (determined with the application of this paragraph to such preceding calendar year), over
      (B) the grossed up required distribution for such preceding calendar year.
    (3) Determination of dividends paid
       The amount of the dividends paid during any calendar year shall be determined without regard to–
      (A) the provisions of section 855, and
      (B) any exempt-interest dividend as defined in section 852(b)(5).
  (d) Time for payment of tax
     The tax imposed by this section for any calendar year shall be paid on or before March 15 of the following calendar year.
  (e) Definitions and special rules
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) Ordinary income
       The term ””ordinary income““ means the investment company taxable income (as defined in section 852(b)(2)) determined–
      (A) without regard to subparagraphs (A) and (D) of section 852(b)(2),
      (B) by not taking into account any gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset, and
      (C) by treating the calendar year as the company“s taxable year.
    (2) Capital gain net income
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term ””capital gain net income““ has the meaning given such term by section 1222(9) (determined by treating the 1-year period ending on October 31 of any calendar year as the company“s taxable year).
      (B) Reduction by net ordinary loss for calendar year
         The amount determined under subparagraph (A) shall be reduced (but not below the net capital gain) by the amount of the company“s net ordinary loss for the calendar year.
      (C) Definitions
         For purposes of this paragraph–
        (i) Net capital gain
           The term ””net capital gain““ has the meaning given such term by section 1222(11) (determined by treating the 1-year period ending on October 31 of the calendar year as the company“s taxable year).
        (ii) Net ordinary loss
           The net ordinary loss for the calendar year is the amount which would be the net operating loss of the company for the calendar year if the amount of such loss were determined in the same manner as ordinary income is determined under paragraph (1).
    (3) Treatment of deficiency distributions
       In the case of any deficiency dividend (as defined in section 860(f))–
      (A) such dividend shall be taken into account when paid without regard to section 860, and
      (B) any income giving rise to the adjustment shall be treated as arising when the dividend is paid.
    (4) Election to use taxable year in certain cases
      (A) In general
         If–
        (i) the taxable year of the regulated investment company ends with the month of November or December, and
        (ii) such company makes an election under this paragraph,
         subsection (b)(1)(B) and paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be applied by taking into account the company“s taxable year in lieu of the 1-year period ending on October 31 of the calendar year.
      (B) Election revocable only with consent
         An election under this paragraph, once made, may be revoked only with the consent of the Secretary.
    (5) Treatment of foreign currency gains and losses after October 31 of calendar year
       Any foreign currency gain or loss which is attributable to a section 988 transaction and which is properly taken into account for the portion of the calendar year after October 31 shall not be taken into account in determining the amount of the ordinary income of the regulated investment company for such calendar year but shall be taken into account in determining the ordinary income of the investment company for the following calendar year. In the case of any company making an election under paragraph (4), the preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting the last day of the company“s taxable year for October 31.
    (6) Treatment of gain recognized under section 1296
       For purposes of determining a regulated investment company“s ordinary income–
      (A) notwithstanding paragraph (1)(C), section 1296 shall be applied as if such company“s taxable year ended on October 31, and
      (B) any ordinary gain or loss from an actual disposition of stock in a passive foreign investment company during the portion of the calendar year after October 31 shall be taken into account in determining such regulated investment company“s ordinary income for the following calendar year.
       In the case of a company making an election under paragraph (4), the preceding sentence shall be applied by substituting the last day of the company“s taxable year for October 31.
  (f) Exception for certain regulated investment companies
     This section shall not apply to any regulated investment company for any calendar year if at all times during such calendar year each shareholder in such company was either–
    (1) a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a), or
    (2) a segregated asset account of a life insurance company held in connection with variable contracts (as defined in section 817(d)).
       For purposes of the preceding sentence, any shares attributable to an investment in the regulated investment company (not exceeding $250,000) made in connection with the organization of such company shall not be taken into account.
