  (a) Collection by return
     The taxes on distilled spirits, wines, and beer shall be collected on the basis of a return. The Secretary shall, by regulation, prescribe the period or event for which such return shall be filed, the time for filing such return, the information to be shown in such return, and the time for payment of such tax.
  (b) Exceptions
     Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), any taxes imposed on, or amounts to be paid or collected in respect of, distilled spirits, wines, and beer under–
    (1) section 5001(a)(4), (5), or (6),
    (2) section 5006(c) or (d),
    (3) section 5041(f),
    (4) section 5043(a)(3),
    (5) section 5054(a)(3) or (4), or
    (6) section 5505(a),
       shall be immediately due and payable at the time provided by such provisions (or if no specific time for payment is provided, at the time the event referred to in such provision occurs). Such taxes and amounts shall be assessed and collected by the Secretary on the basis of the information available to him in the same manner as taxes payable by return but with respect to which no return has been filed.
  (c) Import duties
     The internal revenue taxes imposed by this part shall be in addition to any import duties unless such duties are specifically designated as being in lieu of internal revenue tax.
  (d) Time for collecting tax on distilled spirits, wines, and beer
    (1) In general
       Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, in the case of distilled spirits, wines, and beer to which this part applies (other than subsection (b) of this section) which are withdrawn under bond for deferred payment of tax, the last day for payment of such tax shall be the 14th day after the last day of the semimonthly period during which the withdrawal occurs.
    (2) Imported articles
       In the case of distilled spirits, wines, and beer which are imported into the United States (other than in bulk containers)–
      (A) In general
         The last day for payment of tax shall be the 14th day after the last day of the semimonthly period during which the article is entered into the customs territory of the United States.
      (B) Special rule for entry for warehousing
         Except as provided in subparagraph (D), in the case of an entry for warehousing, the last day for payment of tax shall not be later than the 14th day after the last day of the semimonthly period during which the article is removed from the 1st such warehouse.
      (C) Foreign trade zones
         Except as provided in subparagraph (D) and in regulations prescribed by the Secretary, articles brought into a foreign trade zone shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, be treated for purposes of this subsection as if such zone were a single customs warehouse.
      (D) Exception for articles destined for export
         Subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall not apply to any article which is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary to be destined for export.
    (3) Distilled spirits, wines, and beer brought into the United States from Puerto Rico
       In the case of distilled spirits, wines, and beer which are brought into the United States (other than in bulk containers) from Puerto Rico, the last day for payment of tax shall be the 14th day after the last day of the semimonthly period during which the article is brought into the United States.
    (4) Taxpayers liable for taxes of not more than $50,000
      (A) In general
         In the case of any taxpayer who reasonably expects to be liable for not more than $50,000 in taxes imposed with respect to distilled spirits, wines, and beer under subparts A, C, and D and section 7652 for the calendar year and who was liable for not more than $50,000 in such taxes in the preceding calendar year, the last day for the payment of tax on withdrawals, removals, and entries (and articles brought into the United States from Puerto Rico) under bond for deferred payment shall be the 14th day after the last day of the calendar quarter during which the action giving rise to the imposition of such tax occurs.
      (B) No application after limit exceeded
         Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to any taxpayer for any portion of the calendar year following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due under subparts A, C, and D and section 7652 from such taxpayer during such calendar year exceeds $50,000, and any tax under such subparts which has not been paid on such date shall be due on the 14th day after the last day of the semimonthly period in which such date occurs.
      (C) Calendar quarter
         For purposes of this paragraph, the term ””calendar quarter““ means the three-month period ending on March 31, June 30, September 30, or December 31.
    (5) Special rule for tax due in September
      (A) In general
         Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this subsection, the taxes on distilled spirits, wines, and beer for the period beginning on September 16 and ending on September 26 shall be paid not later than September 29.
      (B) Safe harbor
         The requirement of subparagraph (A) shall be treated as met if the amount paid not later than September 29 is not less than \11/15\ of the taxes on distilled spirits, wines, and beer for the period beginning on September 1 and ending on September 15.
      (C) Taxpayers not required to use electronic funds transfer
         In the case of payments not required to be made by electronic funds transfer, subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be applied by substituting ””September 25““ for ””September 26““, ””September 28““ for ””September 29““, and ””\2/3\““ for ””\11/15\““.
    (6) Special rule where due date falls on Saturday, Sunday, or holiday
       Notwithstanding section 7503, if, but for this paragraph, the due date under this subsection for payment of tax would fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday (within the meaning of section 7503), such due date shall be the immediately preceding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or such a holiday (or the immediately following day where the due date described in paragraph (5) falls on a Sunday).
  (e) Payment by electronic fund transfer
    (1) In general
       Any person who in any 12-month period ending December 31, was liable for a gross amount equal to or exceeding $5,000,000 in taxes imposed on distilled spirits, wines, or beer by sections 5001, 5041, and 5051 (or 7652), respectively, shall pay such taxes during the succeeding calendar year by electronic fund transfer to a Federal Reserve Bank.
    (2) Electronic fund transfer
       The term ””electronic fund transfer““ means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by check, draft, or similar paper instrument, which is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephonic instrument, or computer or magnetic tape so as to order, instruct, or authorize a financial institution to debit or credit an account.
    (3) Controlled groups
      (A) In general
         In the case of a controlled group of corporations, all corporations which are component members of such group shall be treated as 1 taxpayer. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ””controlled group of corporations““ has the meaning given to such term by subsection (a) of section 1563, except that ””more than 50 percent““ shall be substituted for ””at least 80 percent““ each place it appears in such subsection.
      (B) Controlled groups which include nonincorporated persons
         Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, principles similar to the principles of subparagraph (A) shall apply to a group of persons under common control where 1 or more of such persons is not a corporation.
