  (a) Qualified forestry conservation bond
     For purposes of this subchapter, the term ””qualified forestry conservation bond““ means any bond issued as part of an issue if–
    (1) 100 percent of the available project proceeds of such issue are to be used for one or more qualified forestry conservation purposes,
    (2) the bond is issued by a qualified issuer, and
    (3) the issuer designates such bond for purposes of this section.
  (b) Limitation on amount of bonds designated
     The maximum aggregate face amount of bonds which may be designated under subsection (a) by any issuer shall not exceed the limitation amount allocated to such issuer under subsection (d).
  (c) National limitation on amount of bonds designated
     There is a national qualified forestry conservation bond limitation of $500,000,000.
  (d) Allocations
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall make allocations of the amount of the national qualified forestry conservation bond limitation described in subsection (c) among qualified forestry conservation purposes in such manner as the Secretary determines appropriate so as to ensure that all of such limitation is allocated before the date which is 24 months after the date of the enactment of this section.
    (2) Solicitation of applications
       The Secretary shall solicit applications for allocations of the national qualified forestry conservation bond limitation described in subsection (c) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section.
  (e) Qualified forestry conservation purpose
     For purposes of this section, the term ””qualified forestry conservation purpose““ means the acquisition by a State or any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof or a 501(c)(3) organization (as defined in section 150(a)(4)) from an unrelated person of forest and forest land that meets the following qualifications:
    (1) Some portion of the land acquired must be adjacent to United States Forest Service Land.
    (2) At least half of the land acquired must be transferred to the United States Forest Service at no net cost to the United States and not more than half of the land acquired may either remain with or be conveyed to a State.
    (3) All of the land must be subject to a native fish habitat conservation plan approved by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
    (4) The amount of acreage acquired must be at least 40,000 acres.
  (f) Qualified issuer
     For purposes of this section, the term ””qualified issuer““ means a State or any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof or a 501(c)(3) organization (as defined in section 150(a)(4)).
  (g) Special arbitrage rule
     In the case of any qualified forestry conservation bond issued as part of an issue, section 54A(d)(4)(C) shall be applied to such issue without regard to clause (i).
  (h) Election to treat 50 percent of bond allocation as payment of tax
    (1) In general
       If–
      (A) a qualified issuer receives an allocation of any portion of the national qualified forestry conservation bond limitation described in subsection (c), and
      (B) the qualified issuer elects the application of this subsection with respect to such allocation,
       then the qualified issuer (without regard to whether the issuer is subject to tax under this chapter) shall be treated as having made a payment against the tax imposed by this chapter, for the taxable year preceding the taxable year in which the allocation is received, in an amount equal to 50 percent of the amount of such allocation.
    (2) Treatment of deemed payment
      (A) In general
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Secretary shall not use the payment of tax described in paragraph (1) as an offset or credit against any tax liability of the qualified issuer but shall refund such payment to such issuer.
      (B) No interest
         Except as provided in paragraph (3)(A), the payment described in paragraph (1) shall not be taken into account in determining any amount of interest under this title.
    (3) Requirement for, and effect of, election
      (A) Requirement
         No election under this subsection shall take effect unless the qualified issuer certifies to the Secretary that any payment of tax refunded to the issuer under this subsection will be used exclusively for 1 or more qualified forestry conservation purposes. If the qualified issuer fails to use any portion of such payment for such purpose, the issuer shall be liable to the United States in an amount equal to such portion, plus interest at the overpayment rate under section 6621 for the period from the date such portion was refunded to the date such amount is paid. Any such amount shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as tax imposed by this chapter, except that subchapter B of chapter 63 (relating to deficiency procedures) shall not apply in respect of such assessment or collection.
      (B) Effect of election on allocation
         If a qualified issuer makes the election under this subsection with respect to any allocation–
        (i) the issuer may issue no bonds pursuant to the allocation, and
        (ii) the Secretary may not reallocate such allocation for any other purpose.
