  (a) Federal recognition
     Notwithstanding any provision of law, Federal recognition is hereby extended to the tribe and to members of the tribe. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, all laws and regulations of the United States of general application to Indians or nations, tribes, or bands of Indians which are not inconsistent with any specific provision of this subchapter shall be applicable to the tribe and its members.
  (b) Restoration of rights and privileges
     All rights and privileges of the tribe and the members of the tribe under any Federal treaty, Executive order, agreement, or statute, or any other Federal authority, which may have been diminished or lost under the Act entitled ””An Act to provide for the termination of Federal supervision over the property of the Klamath Tribe of Indians located in the State of Oregon and the individual members thereof, and for other purposes““, approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 564 et seq.), are restored, and the provisions of such Act, to the extent that they are inconsistent with this subchapter, shall be inapplicable to the tribe and to members of the tribe after August 27, 1986.
  (c) Federal services and benefits
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the tribe and its members shall be eligible, on and after August 27, 1986, for all Federal services and benefits furnished to federally recognized Indian tribes or their members without regard to the existence of a reservation for the tribe. In the case of Federal services available to members of federally recognized Indian tribes residing on or near a reservation, members of the tribe residing in Klamath County shall be deemed to be residing in or near a reservation. Any member residing in Klamath County shall continue to be eligible to receive any such Federal service notwithstanding the establishment of a reservation for the tribe in the future. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the tribe shall be considered an Indian tribe for the purpose of the ””Indian Tribal Government Tax Status Act““ (Sec. 7871, I.R.C. 1986).
  (d) Certain rights not altered
     Nothing in this subchapter shall alter any property right or obligation, any contractual right or obligation, or any obligation for taxes already levied.
  (e) Modoc Indian Tribe of Oklahoma
     This subchapter does not apply to the members of the Modoc Indian Tribe of Oklahoma as recognized under section 861a(a) of this title and the Klamath Tribe of Indians does not (except for the purposes set out in section 861a(a)(1) of this title) include the members of the Modoc Indian Tribe of Oklahoma.
