  (a) Cigars
     On cigars, manufactured in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed the following taxes:
    (1) Small cigars
       On cigars, weighing not more than 3 pounds per thousand, $50.33 per thousand;
    (2) Large cigars
       On cigars weighing more than 3 pounds per thousand, a tax equal to 52.75 percent of the price for which sold but not more than 40.26 cents per cigar.
       Cigars not exempt from tax under this chapter which are removed but not intended for sale shall be taxed at the same rate as similar cigars removed for sale.
  (b) Cigarettes
     On cigarettes, manufactured in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed the following taxes:
    (1) Small cigarettes
       On cigarettes, weighing not more than 3 pounds per thousand, $50.33 per thousand;
    (2) Large cigarettes
       On cigarettes, weighing more than 3 pounds per thousand, $105.69 per thousand; except that, if more than 6\1/2\ inches in length, they shall be taxable at the rate prescribed for cigarettes weighing not more than 3 pounds per thousand, counting each 2\3/4\ inches, or fraction thereof, of the length of each as one cigarette.
  (c) Cigarette papers
     On cigarette papers, manufactured in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed a tax of 3.15 cents for each 50 papers or fractional part thereof; except that, if cigarette papers measure more than 6\1/2\ inches in length, they shall be taxable at the rate prescribed, counting each 2\3/4\ inches, or fraction thereof, of the length of each as one cigarette paper.
  (d) Cigarette tubes
     On cigarette tubes, manufactured in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed a tax of 6.30 cents for each 50 tubes or fractional part thereof, except that if cigarette tubes measure more than 6\1/2\ inches in length, they shall be taxable at the rate prescribed, counting each 2\3/4\ inches, or fraction thereof, of the length of each as one cigarette tube.
  (e) Smokeless tobacco
     On smokeless tobacco, manufacturered \1\N in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed the following taxes:
    (1) Snuff
       On snuff, $1.51 per pound and a proportionate tax at the like rate on all fractional parts of a pound.
    (2) Chewing tobacco
       On chewing tobacco, 50.33 cents per pound and a proportionate tax at the like rate on all fractional parts of a pound.
  (f) Pipe tobacco
     On pipe tobacco, manufactured in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed a tax of $2.8311 cents per pound (and a proportionate tax at the like rate on all fractional parts of a pound).
  (g) Roll-your-own tobacco
     On roll-your-own tobacco, manufactured in or imported into the United States, there shall be imposed a tax of $24.78 per pound (and a proportionate tax at the like rate on all fractional parts of a pound).
  (h) Imported tobacco products and cigarette papers and tubes
     The taxes imposed by this section on tobacco products and cigarette papers and tubes imported into the United States shall be in addition to any import duties imposed on such articles, unless such import duties are imposed in lieu of internal revenue tax.
