  (a) Trustees and insurance companies
     The trustee of a trust described in section 401(a) which is exempt from tax under section 501(a) to which contributions have been paid under a plan on behalf of any owner-employee (as defined in section 401(c)(3)), and each insurance company or other person which is the issuer of a contract purchased by such a trust, or purchased under a plan described in section 403(a), contributions for which have been paid on behalf of any owner-employee, shall file such returns (in such form and at such times), keep such records, make such identification of contracts and funds (and accounts within such funds), and supply such information, as the Secretary shall by forms or regulations prescribe.
  (b) Owner-employees
     Every individual on whose behalf contributions have been paid as an owner-employee (as defined in section 401(c)(3))–
    (1) to a trust described in section 401(a) which is exempt from tax under section 501(a), or
    (2) to an insurance company or other person under a plan described in section 403(a),
       shall furnish the trustee, insurance company, or other person, as the case may be, such information at such times and in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe by forms or regulations.
  (c) Other programs
     To the extent provided by regulations prescribed by the Secretary, the provisions of this section apply with respect to any payment described in section 219 and to transactions of any trust described in section 408(a) or under an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b).
  (d) Reports by employers, plan administrators, etc.
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall by forms or regulations require that–
      (A) the employer maintaining, or the plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) of, a plan from which designated distributions (as defined in section 3405(e)(1)) may be made, and
      (B) any person issuing any contract under which designated distributions (as so defined) may be made,
       make returns and reports regarding such plan (or contract) to the Secretary, to the participants and beneficiaries of such plan (or contract), and to such other persons as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe. No return or report may be required under the preceding sentence with respect to distributions to any person during any year unless such distributions aggregate $10 or more.
    (2) Form, etc., of reports
       Such reports shall be in such form, made at such time, and contain such information as the Secretary may prescribe by forms or regulations.
  (e) Employee stock ownership plans
     The Secretary shall require–
    (1) any employer maintaining, or the plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) of, an employee stock ownership plan which holds stock with respect to which section 404(k) applies to dividends paid on such stock, or
    (2) both such employer or plan administrator,
       to make returns and reports regarding such plan, transaction, or loan to the Secretary and to such other persons as the Secretary may prescribe. Such returns and reports shall be made in such form, shall be made at such time, and shall contain such information as the Secretary may prescribe.
  (f) Designated Roth contributions
     The Secretary shall require the plan administrator of each applicable retirement plan (as defined in section 402A) to make such returns and reports regarding designated Roth contributions (as defined in section 402A) to the Secretary, participants and beneficiaries of the plan, and such other persons as the Secretary may prescribe.
  (g) Cross references
     T2(1) For provisions relating to penalties for failures to file returns and reports required under this section, see sections 6652(e), 6721, and 6722.
     T2(2) For criminal penalty for furnishing fraudulent information, see section 7207.
     T2(3) For provisions relating to penalty for failure to comply with the provisions of subsection (d), see section 6704.
