  (a) Federal recognition
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Act approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 691 et seq.) or any other law, Federal recognition is extended to the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon and the corporate charter of such tribe issued pursuant to section 477 of this title and ratified by the tribe on August 22, 1936, is reinstated. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, all laws and regulations of the United States of general application to Indians or nations, tribes, or bands of Indians which are not inconsistent with any specific provision of this subchapter shall be applicable to the tribe.
  (b) Restoration of rights and privileges
     Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, all rights and privileges of the tribe and the members of the tribe under any Federal treaty, Executive order, agreement, or statute, or under any other Federal authority, which may have been diminished or lost under the Act approved August 13, 1954 (25 U.S.C. 691 et seq.) are restored, and the provisions of such subchapter shall be inapplicable to the tribe and to members of the tribe after November 22, 1983.
  (c) Federal services and benefits
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the tribe and its members shall be eligible, on and after November 22, 1983, for all Federal services and benefits furnished to federally recognized Indian tribes without regard to the existence of a reservation for the tribe. In the case of Federal services available to members of federally recognized Indian tribes residing on or near a reservation, members of the tribe residing in the following counties of the State of Oregon shall be deemed to be residing on or near a reservation:
    (1) Washington County.
    (2) Marion County.
    (3) Yamhill County.
    (4) Polk County.
    (5) Tillamook County.
    (6) Multnomah County.
       Any member residing in any such county shall continue to be eligible to receive any such Federal service notwithstanding the establishment of any reservation for the tribe in accordance with any plan prepared pursuant to section 713f of this title.
  (d) No hunting, fishing or trapping rights restored
     No hunting, fishing, or trapping rights of any nature of the tribe or of any member, including any indirect or procedural right or advantage over individuals who are not members, are granted or restored under this subchapter.
  (e) Effect on property rights and other obligations
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subchapter, no provision contained in this subchapter shall alter any property right or obligation, any contractual right or obligation, or any obligation for taxes already levied.
