  (a) Establishment
     There is established an Interim Council of the tribe which shall be composed of nine members. The Interim Council shall represent the tribe and its members in the implementation of this subchapter and shall be the governing body of the tribe until the tribal governing body established in accordance with section 713d of this title first convenes.
  (b) Nomination and election of Interim Council members
    (1) Within forty-five days after November 22, 1983, the Secretary shall announce the date of a general council meeting of the tribe to nominate candidates for election to the Interim Council. Such general council meeting shall be held within fifteen days of such announcement.
    (2) Within forty-five days after such general council meeting, the Secretary shall hold an election by secret ballot to elect the members of the Interim Council from among the members nominated in such general council meeting. Absentee and write-in balloting shall be permitted.
    (3) The Secretary shall approve the results of the Interim Council election conducted pursuant to this section if he is satisfied that the requirements of this section relating to the nomination and the election processes have been met. If he is not satisfied, he shall call for another general council meeting to be held within sixty days after such election to nominate candidates for election to the Interim Council and shall hold another election within forty-five days of such meeting.
    (4) The Secretary shall take any action necessary to ensure that each member described in section 713e(d) of this title is given notice of the time, place, and purpose of each meeting and election held pursuant to this subsection at least ten days before such general meeting or election.
  (c) Authority and capacity; termination
    (1) The Interim Council shall have no powers other than those given it under this subchapter.
    (2) With respect to any Federal service or benefit for which the tribe or any member is eligible, the Interim Council shall have full authority and capacity to receive grants and to enter into contracts.
    (3)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Interim Council and such Council“s authority and capacity under this section shall cease to exist on the date the tribal governing body first convenes.
      (B) With respect to any contractual right established and any obligation entered into by the Interim Council, such Council shall have the authority and capacity to bind the tribal governing body, as the successor in interest to the Interim Council, for a period of not more than six months beginning on the date such tribal governing body first convenes.
  (d) Vacancy on Interim Council
     Within thirty days after a vacancy occurs on the Interim Council and subject to the approval of the Secretary, the Interim Council shall hold a general council meeting to nominate a candidate for election to fill such vacancy and shall hold such election. The Interim Council shall provide notice of the time, place, and purpose of such meeting and election to members described in section 713e(d) of this title at least ten days before each such general meeting or election.
