  (a) Membership roll established and opened
     The membership roll of the tribe is established and open.
  (b) Criteria governing eligibility
    (1) Until the first election of the tribal governing body is held pursuant to section 713d(d) of this title, any living individual may be enrolled on the membership roll of the tribe if–
      (A) that individual“s name was listed on the final membership roll of the tribe published on April 6, 1956, in volume 20, number 101, Federal Register, pages 3636 through 3642;
      (B) that individual was entitled to be on the membership roll of the tribe on August 13, 1954, but was not listed; or
      (C) that individual is a descendant of an individual, living or dead, described in subparagraph (A) or (B) and possesses at least one-fourth degree of blood of members of the tribe, living or dead, or individuals who are or would have been eligible to be members under this paragraph.
    (2) After the first election of the tribal governing body is held pursuant to section 713d(d) of this title, the provisions of the constitution and bylaws adopted in accordance with section 713d(a) of this title shall govern membership in the tribe.
  (c) Procedures for verification of eligibility
    (1) Before the election of the members of the Interim Council is held pursuant to section 713c(b) of this title, verification of (A) descendancy, for purposes of enrollment, and (B) age, for purposes of voting rights under subsection (d) of this section, shall be made upon oath before the Secretary whose determination thereon shall be final.
    (2) After the election of the members of the Interim Council is held pursuant to section 713c(b) of this title, but before the first election of the members of the tribal governing body is held pursuant to section 713d(d) of this title, the verification of descendancy and age shall be made upon oath before the Interim Council, or its authorized representative. An individual may appeal the exclusion of his name from the membership roll of the tribe to the Secretary, who shall make a final determination of each such appeal within ninety days after such an appeal has been filed with him. The determination of the Secretary with respect to such an appeal shall be final.
    (3) After the first election of the members of the tribal governing body is held pursuant to section 713d(d) of this title, the provisions of the constitution and bylaws adopted in accordance with section 713d(a) of this title shall govern the verification of any requirements for membership in the tribe. The Interim Council and the Secretary shall deliver their records and files and any other material relating to the enrollment of tribal members to such tribal governing body.
    (4) Not less than sixty days before the election under section 713d(a) of this title, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a certified copy of the membership roll of the tribe as of the date of such publication. Such membership roll shall include the names of all individuals who were enrolled by the Secretary, either directly under paragraph (1) or pursuant to an appeal under paragraph (2), and by the Interim Council under paragraph (2).
  (d) Voting rights of member
     Each member who is eighteen years of age or older shall be eligible to attend, participate in, and vote at each general council meeting. Each such member may nominate candidates for any office, run for any office, and vote in any election of members to the Interim Council and to such other tribal governing body as may be established under the constitution and bylaws adopted in accordance with section 713d of this title.
