  (a) Establishment
     A reservation shall be established by this subchapter at no cost to the Federal Government.
  (b) Legal description
     So long as the lands are offered to the Federal Government free of purchase cost, the Secretary shall accept the following lands in trust for the tribe \1\N as a reservation:
    (1) In Coos County, Oregon, a parcel containing 1.02 acres and described as parcel 3200 of section 106B of township 25 south, range 12 west, Willamette meridian.
    (2) In Coos County, Oregon, a parcel described as lots 10–18, block 13, Empire Commercial tracts K73 2K 81, A. N. Foley Donation Land Claim Numbered 38, section 20 of township 25 south, range 13 west, Willamette meridian. The Secretary shall not accept this parcel into trust until the date that is 1 year after October 17, 1984. If before the end of the ninety day period, a person or entity other than the tribe \1\ files a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction claiming an interest in such parcel or portion thereof, the Secretary shall not accept the parcel into trust until the final adjudication of this lawsuit. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to the prejudice of any parties to such lawsuit or be construed to prevent a court of competent jurisdiction from partitioning such parcel in the adjudication of such lawsuit. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States District Court for the District of Oregon shall be deemed to have jurisdiction over any lawsuit filed to determine the rights to the above described parcel of land.
    (3) In Curry County, Oregon, a parcel described as the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 11 of township 32 south, range 15 west, Willamette meridian.
  (c) State of Oregon; criminal and civil jurisdiction
     The State of Oregon shall exercise criminal and civil jurisdiction over the reservation, and over the individuals on the reservation, in accordance with section 1162 of title 18 and section 1360 of title 28, respectively.
