  (a) Federal recognition
     Notwithstanding any provision of law, Federal recognition is hereby extended to the Coquille Indian Tribe. Except as otherwise provided herein, all laws and regulations of general application to Indians or nations, tribes, or bands of Indians that are not inconsistent with any specific provision of this subchapter shall be applicable to the Tribe and its Members.
  (b) Restoration of rights and privileges
     Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, all rights and privileges of this Tribe and of its Members under any Federal treaty, Executive order, agreement or statute or under any other authority, which were diminished or lost under the Act of August 13, 1954 (68 Stat. 724) [25 U.S.C. 691 et seq.], are hereby restored and provisions of said Act shall be inapplicable to the Tribe and its Members after June 28, 1989.
  (c) Federal services and benefits
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law and without regard to the existence of a reservation, the Tribe and its Members shall be eligible, on and after June 28, 1989, for all Federal services and benefits furnished to federally recognized Indian tribes or their members. In the case of Federal services available to members of federally recognized tribes residing on a reservation, Members of the Tribe in the Tribe“s service area shall be deemed to be residing on a reservation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Tribe shall be considered an Indian tribe for the purpose of the Indian Tribal Government Tax Status Act (26 U.S.C. 7871).
  (d) Hunting, fishing, trapping, and water rights
     Nothing in this subchapter shall expand, reduce, or affect in any manner any hunting, fishing, trapping, gathering, or water right of the Tribe and its Members.
  (e) Indian Reorganization Act applicability
     The Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984), as amended [25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.], shall be applicable to the Tribe and its Members.
  (f) Certain rights not altered
     Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, nothing in this subchapter shall alter any property right or obligation, any contractual right or obligation, or any obligation for taxes levied.
