  (a) General rule
     In the case of any distribution by a partnership to a partner, such partner shall be treated as recognizing gain in an amount equal to the lesser of–
    (1) the excess (if any) of (A) the fair market value of property (other than money) received in the distribution over (B) the adjusted basis of such partner“s interest in the partnership immediately before the distribution reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of money received in the distribution, or
    (2) the net precontribution gain of the partner.
       Gain recognized under the preceding sentence shall be in addition to any gain recognized under section 731. The character of such gain shall be determined by reference to the proportionate character of the net precontribution gain.
  (b) Net precontribution gain
     For purposes of this section, the term ””net precontribution gain““ means the net gain (if any) which would have been recognized by the distributee partner under section 704(c)(1)(B) if all property which–
    (1) had been contributed to the partnership by the distributee partner within 7 years of the distribution, and
    (2) is held by such partnership immediately before the distribution,
       had been distributed by such partnership to another partner.
  (c) Basis rules
    (1) Partner“s interest
       The adjusted basis of a partner“s interest in a partnership shall be increased by the amount of any gain recognized by such partner under subsection (a). For purposes of determining the basis of the distributed property (other than money), such increase shall be treated as occurring immediately before the distribution.
    (2) Partnership“s basis in contributed property
       Appropriate adjustments shall be made to the adjusted basis of the partnership in the contributed property referred to in subsection (b) to reflect gain recognized under subsection (a).
  (d) Exceptions
    (1) Distributions of previously contributed property
       If any portion of the property distributed consists of property which had been contributed by the distributee partner to the partnership, such property shall not be taken into account under subsection (a)(1) and shall not be taken into account in determining the amount of the net precontribution gain. If the property distributed consists of an interest in an entity, the preceding sentence shall not apply to the extent that the value of such interest is attributable to property contributed to such entity after such interest had been contributed to the partnership.
    (2) Coordination with section 751
       This section shall not apply to the extent section 751(b) applies to such distribution.
  (e) Marketable securities treated as money
     T2For treatment of marketable securities as money for purposes of this section, see section 731(c).
