  (a) Reports
     The Commission shall, as soon as practicable after each presidential election, submit a full report to the Senate and House of Representatives setting forth–
    (1) the qualified campaign expenses (shown in such detail as the Commission determines necessary) incurred by the candidates of each political party and their authorized committees;
    (2) the amounts certified by it under section 9005 for payment to the eligible candidates of each political party;
    (3) the amount of payments, if any, required from such candidates under section 9007, and the reasons for each payment required; and
    (4) the expenses incurred by the national committee of a major party or minor party with respect to a presidential nominating convention;
    (5) the amounts certified by it under section 9008(g) for payment to each such committee; and
    (6) the amount of payments, if any, required from such committees under section 9008(h), and the reasons for each such payment.
       Each report submitted pursuant to this section shall be printed as a Senate document.
  (b) Regulations, etc.
     The Commission is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c), to conduct such examinations and audits (in addition to the examinations and audits required by section 9007(a)), to conduct such investigations, and to require the keeping and submission of such books, records, and information, as it deems necessary to carry out the functions and duties imposed on it by this chapter.
  (c) Review of regulations
    (1) The Commission, before prescribing any rule or regulation under subsection (b), shall transmit a statement with respect to such rule or regulation to the Senate and to the House of Representatives, in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. Such statement shall set forth the proposed rule or regulation and shall contain a detailed explanation and justification of such rule or regulation.
    (2) If either such House does not, through appropriate action, disapprove the proposed rule or regulation set forth in such statement no later than 30 legislative days after receipt of such statement, then the Commission may prescribe such rule or regulation. Whenever a committee of the House of Representatives reports any resolution relating to any such rule or regulation, it is at any time thereafter in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the resolution. The motion is highly privileged and is not debatable. An amendment to the motion is not in order, and it is not in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to. The Commission may not prescribe any rule or regulation which is disapproved by either such House under this paragraph.
    (3) For purposes of this subsection, the term ””legislative days““ does not include any calendar day on which both Houses of the Congress are not in session.
    (4) For purposes of this subsection, the term ””rule or regulation““ means a provision or series of interrelated provisions stating a single separable rule of law.
