  (a) Extension; laws applicable
     Notwithstanding the provisions of the Act of June 17, 1954 (68 Stat. 250; 25 U.S.C. 891–902), as amended, or any other law, Federal recognition is hereby extended to the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin and the provisions of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.), as amended, are made applicable to it.
  (b) Repeal of provisions terminating Federal supervision; reinstatement of tribal rights and privileges
     The Act of June 17, 1954 (68 Stat. 250; 25 U.S.C. 891–902) as amended, is hereby repealed and there are hereby reinstated all rights and privileges of the tribe or its members under Federal treaty, statute, or otherwise which may have been diminished or lost pursuant to such Act.
  (c) Continuation of tribal rights and privileges
     Nothing contained in this subchapter shall diminish any rights or privileges enjoyed by the tribe or its members now or prior to June 17, 1954, under Federal treaty, statute, or otherwise, which are now inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter.
  (d) Continuation of property or contractual rights or obligations and tax obligations
     Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, nothing contained in this subchapter shall alter any property rights or obligations, any contractual rights or obligations, including existing fishing rights, or any obligations for taxes already levied.
  (e) Grants for services entitled to upon Federal recognition; terms and conditions; power of Menominee Restoration Committee
     In providing to the tribe such services to which it may be entitled upon its recognition pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate, are authorized from funds appropriated pursuant to section 13 of this title, the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), as amended [42 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.], or any other Act authorizing appropriations for the administration of Indian affairs, upon the request of the tribe and subject to such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed to, to make grants and contract to make grants which will accomplish the general purposes for which the funds were appropriated. The Menominee Restoration Committee shall have full authority and capacity to be a party to receive such grants \1\N to make such contracts, and to bind the tribal governing body as the successor in interest to the Menominee Restoration Committee: T3Provided, howeverK, That the Menominee Restoration Committee shall have no authority to bind the tribe for a period of more than six months after the date on which the tribal governing body takes office.
