  (a) Base membership roll criteria
     Within one year after October 27, 1993, the Tribe shall submit to the Secretary, for approval, its base membership roll. An individual is eligible for inclusion on the base membership roll if that individual is living on October 27, 1993, and–
    (1) is listed on the membership roll published by the Secretary in the Federal Register on February 25, 1961 (26 FR 1680–1688, ””Notice of Final Membership Roll““), and is not excluded under the provisions of subsection (c) of this section;
    (2) the Executive Committee determines, based on the criteria used to compile the roll referred to in paragraph (1), that the individual should have been included on the membership roll at that time, but was not; or
    (3) is a lineal descendant of a Member whose name appeared or should have appeared on the membership roll referred to in paragraph (1).
  (b) Base membership roll notice
     Within 90 days after October 27, 1993, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register, and in three newspapers of general circulation in the Tribe“s service area, a notice stating–
    (1) that a base membership roll is being prepared by the Tribe and that the current membership roll is open and will remain open for a period of 90 days;
    (2) the requirements for inclusion on the base membership roll;
    (3) the final membership roll published by the Secretary in the Federal Register on February 25, 1961;
    (4) the current membership roll as prepared by the Executive Committee and approved by the General Council; and
    (5) the name and address of the tribal or Federal official to whom inquiries should be made.
  (c) Completion of base membership roll
     Within 120 days after publication of notice under subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary, after consultation with the Tribe, shall prepare and publish in the Federal Register, and in three newspapers of general circulation in the Tribe“s service area, a proposed final base membership roll of the Tribe. Within 60 days from the date of publication of the proposed final base membership roll, an appeal may be filed with the Executive Committee under rules made by the Executive Committee in consultation with the Secretary. Such an appeal may be filed by a Member with respect to the inclusion of any name on the proposed final base membership roll and by any person with respect to the exclusion of his or her name from the final base membership roll. The Executive Committee shall review such appeals and render a decision, subject to the Secretary“s approval. If the Executive Committee and the Secretary disagree, the Secretary“s decision will be final. All such appeals shall be resolved within 90 days following publication of the proposed roll. The final base membership roll of the Tribe shall then be published in the Federal Register, and in three newspapers of general circulation in the Tribe“s service area, and shall be final for purposes of the distribution of funds from the Per Capita Trust Fund established under section 941i(h) of this title.
  (d) Future membership in Tribe
     The Tribe shall have the right to determine future membership in the Tribe; however, in no event may an individual be enrolled as a tribal member unless the individual is a lineal descendant of a person on the final base membership roll and has continued to maintain political relations with the Tribe.
