  (a) In general
     For purposes of this chapter, the Commissioner of Social Security shall, before October 1, 1993, assign each coal industry retiree who is an eligible beneficiary to a signatory operator which (or any related person with respect to which) remains in business in the following order:
    (1) First, to the signatory operator which–
      (A) was a signatory to the 1978 coal wage agreement or any subsequent coal wage agreement, and
      (B) was the most recent signatory operator to employ the coal industry retiree in the coal industry for at least 2 years.
    (2) Second, if the retiree is not assigned under paragraph (1), to the signatory operator which–
      (A) was a signatory to the 1978 coal wage agreement or any subsequent coal wage agreement, and
      (B) was the most recent signatory operator to employ the coal industry retiree in the coal industry.
    (3) Third, if the retiree is not assigned under paragraph (1) or (2), to the signatory operator which employed the coal industry retiree in the coal industry for a longer period of time than any other signatory operator prior to the effective date of the 1978 coal wage agreement.
  (b) Rules relating to employment and reassignment upon purchase
     For purposes of subsection (a)–
    (1) Aggregation rules
      (A) Related person
         Any employment of a coal industry retiree in the coal industry by a signatory operator shall be treated as employment by any related persons to such operator.
      (B) Certain employment disregarded
         Employment with–
        (i) a person which is (and all related persons with respect to which are) no longer in business, or
        (ii) a person during a period during which such person was not a signatory to a coal wage agreement,
         shall not be taken into account.
    (2) Reassignment upon purchase
       If a person becomes a successor of an assigned operator after the enactment date, the assigned operator may transfer the assignment of an eligible beneficiary under subsection (a) to such successor, and such successor shall be treated as the assigned operator with respect to such eligible beneficiary for purposes of this chapter. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the assigned operator transferring such assignment (and any related person) shall remain the guarantor of the benefits provided to the eligible beneficiary under this chapter. An assigned operator shall notify the trustees of the Combined Fund of any transfer described in this paragraph.
  (c) Identification of eligible beneficiaries
     The 1950 UMWA Benefit Plan and the 1974 UMWA Benefit Plan shall, by the later of October 1, 1992, or the twentieth day after the enactment date, provide to the Commissioner of Social Security a list of the names and social security account numbers of each eligible beneficiary, including each deceased eligible beneficiary if any other individual is an eligible beneficiary by reason of a relationship to such deceased eligible beneficiary. In addition, the plans shall provide, where ascertainable from plan records, the names of all persons described in subsection (a) with respect to any eligible beneficiary or deceased eligible beneficiary.
  (d) Cooperation by other agencies and persons
    (1) Cooperation
       The head of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States shall cooperate fully and promptly with the Commissioner of Social Security in providing information which will enable the Commissioner to carry out his responsibilities under this section.
    (2) Providing of information
      (A) In general
         Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 6103, the head of any other agency, department, or instrumentality shall, upon receiving a written request from the Commissioner of Social Security in connection with this section, cause a search to be made of the files and records maintained by such agency, department, or instrumentality with a view to determining whether the information requested is contained in such files or records. The Commissioner shall be advised whether the search disclosed the information requested, and, if so, such information shall be promptly transmitted to the Commissioner, except that if the disclosure of any requested information would contravene national policy or security interests of the United States, or the confidentiality of census data, the information shall not be transmitted and the Commissioner shall be so advised.
      (B) Limitation
         Any information provided under subparagraph (A) shall be limited to information necessary for the Commissioner to carry out his duties under this section.
    (3) Trustees
       The trustees of the Combined Fund, the 1950 UMWA Benefit Plan, the 1974 UMWA Benefit Plan, the 1950 UMWA Pension Plan, and the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan shall fully and promptly cooperate with the Commissioner in furnishing, or assisting the Commissioner to obtain, any information the Commissioner needs to carry out the Commissioner“s responsibilities under this section.
  (e) Notice by Commissioner
    (1) Notice to Fund
       The Commissioner of Social Security shall advise the trustees of the Combined Fund of the name of each person identified under this section as an assigned operator, and the names and social security account numbers of eligible beneficiaries with respect to whom he is identified.
    (2) Other notice
       The Commissioner of Social Security shall notify each assigned operator of the names and social security account numbers of eligible beneficiaries who have been assigned to such person under this section and a brief summary of the facts related to the basis for such assignments.
  (f) Reconsideration by Commissioner
    (1) In general
       Any assigned operator receiving a notice under subsection (e)(2) with respect to an eligible beneficiary may, within 30 days of receipt of such notice, request from the Commissioner of Social Security detailed information as to the work history of the beneficiary and the basis of the assignment.
    (2) Review
       An assigned operator may, within 30 days of receipt of the information under paragraph (1), request review of the assignment. The Commissioner of Social Security shall conduct such review if the Commissioner finds the operator provided evidence with the request constituting a prima facie case of error.
    (3) Results of review
      (A) Error
         If the Commissioner of Social Security determines under a review under paragraph (2) that an assignment was in error–
        (i) the Commissioner shall notify the assigned operator and the trustees of the Combined Fund and the trustees shall reduce the premiums of the operator under section 9704 by (or if there are no such premiums, repay) all premiums paid under section 9704 with respect to the eligible beneficiary, and
        (ii) the Commissioner shall review the beneficiary“s record for reassignment under subsection (a).
      (B) No error
         If the Commissioner of Social Security determines under a review conducted under paragraph (2) that no error occurred, the Commissioner shall notify the assigned operator.
    (4) Determinations
       Any determination by the Commissioner of Social Security under paragraph (2) or (3) shall be final.
    (5) Payment pending review
       An assigned operator shall pay the premiums under section 9704 pending review by the Commissioner of Social Security or by a court under this subsection.
    (6) Private actions
       Nothing in this section shall preclude the right of any person to bring a separate civil action against another person for responsibility for assigned premiums, notwithstanding any prior decision by the Commissioner.
  (g) Confidentiality of information
     Any person to which information is provided by the Commissioner of Social Security under this section shall not disclose such information except in any proceedings related to this section. Any civil or criminal penalty which is applicable to an unauthorized disclosure under section 6103 shall apply to any unauthorized disclosure under this section.
