   As used in this chapter–
  (a) The term ””person““ means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other form of business enterprise.
  (b) The term ””commerce““ means commerce among the several States or with foreign nations or in any territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia or between any such territory and another, or between any such territory and any State or foreign nation, or between the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any State or territory or foreign nation, or between the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any State or territory or foreign nation or the District of Columbia.
  (c) The term ””territory““ includes the insular possessions of the United States and also any territory of the United States.
  (d) The term ””article of wearing apparel““ means any costume or article of clothing worn or intended to be worn by individuals.
  (e) The term ””interior furnishing““ means any type of furnishing made in whole or in part of fabric or related material and intended for use or which may reasonably be expected to be used, in homes, offices, or other places of assembly or accommodation.
  (f) The term ””fabric““ means any material (except fiber, filament, or yarn for other than retail sale) woven, knitted, felted, or otherwise produced from or in combination with any natural or synthetic fiber, film, or substitute therefor which is intended for use or which may reasonably be expected to be used, in any product as defined in paragraph (h) of this section.
  (g) The term ””related material““ means paper, plastic, rubber, synthetic film, or synthetic foam which is intended for use or which may reasonably be expected to be used in any product as defined in paragraph (h) of this section.
  (h) The term ””product““ means any article of wearing apparel or interior furnishing.
  (i) The term ””Commission““ means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
  (j) The term ””Federal Trade Commission Act““ means the Act of Congress entitled ””An Act to create a Federal Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for other purposes““, approved September 26, 1914, as amended [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].
