  (a) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, not to exceed, however, $38,314,000 for the acquisition of property, and not to exceed $19,179,000 (June 1969 prices) for development, plus or minus such amounts, if any, as may be justified by reason of ordinary fluctuations in construction costs as indicated by engineering cost indices applicable to the types of construction involved herein.
  (b) Comprehensive plan for visitor use and overnight visitor facilities; development, implementation, etc.; authorization of appropriations
     The Secretary shall, in cooperation with other Federal, State, and local governmental entities and private entities experienced in the fields of outdoor recreation and visitor services, develop and implement a comprehensive plan for visitor use and overnight visitor facilities for the park. The plan shall set forth methods of achieving an appropriate level and type of visitation in order that the resources of the park and its environs may be interpreted for, and used and enjoyed by, the public in a manner consistent with the purposes for which the park was established. Such plan may include appropriate informational and educational messages and materials. In the development and implementation of such plan the Secretary may expend funds donated or appropriated for the purposes of this subsection. Effective October 1, 1983, there is authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of this subsection not to exceed $250,000, to remain available until expended.
  (c) Existing road access; study and report; authorization of appropriations
     The Secretary is directed to study existing road access to the park and to report to Congress on the impact of park-related use of those roads and to report specific recommendations on improvements necessary to insure adequate road access to the park. The Secretary is directed to report, within one year of the date of enactment of the Act which appropriates funds authorized under this subsection, to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. Effective October 1, 1983, there is authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of this subsection not to exceed $75,000.
  (d) Statutory ceilings respecting appropriations
     For purposes of section 460T3lK–9(a)(3) of this title, the statutory ceilings on appropriations established by this section shall be deemed to be statutory ceilings contained in a provision of law enacted prior to the convening of the Ninety-fifth Congress.
