  (a) Types of programs; preconditions and cooperation with State program directors, etc.
     The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””Secretary““), under conditions the Secretary may prescribe and in cooperation with the State directors of cooperative extension service programs and eligible colleges and universities, shall–
    (1) provide educational programs that enable individuals to recognize, analyze, and resolve problems dealing with renewable resources, including forest- and range-based outdoor recreation opportunities, trees and forests in urban areas, and trees and shrubs in shelterbelts;
    (2) use educational programs to disseminate the results of research on renewable resources;
    (3) conduct educational programs that transfer the best available technology to those involved in the management and protection of forests and rangelands and the processing and use of their associated renewable resources;
    (4) develop and implement educational programs that give special attention to the educational needs of small, private nonindustrial forest landowners;
    (5) develop and implement educational programs in range and fish and wildlife management;
    (6) assist in providing continuing education programs for professionally trained individuals in fish and wildlife, forest, range, and watershed management and related fields;
    (7) help forest and range landowners in securing technical and financial assistance to bring appropriate expertise to bear on their problems;
    (8) help identify areas of needed research regarding renewable resources;
    (9) in cooperation with State foresters or equivalent State officials, promote public understanding of the energy conservation, economic, social, environmental, and psychological values of trees and open space in urban and community area environments and expand knowledge of the ecological relationships and benefits of trees and related resources in urban and community environments; and
    (10) conduct a comprehensive natural resource and environmental education program for landowners and managers, public officials, and the public, with particular emphasis on youth.
  (b) ””Eligible colleges and universities““ defined
     As used in this subchapter, the term ””eligible colleges and universities““ means colleges and universities eligible to be supported and maintained, in whole or in part, with funds made available under the provisions of the Act of July 2, 1862 (12 Stat. 503–505, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 301–305, 307, 308), and the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417–419, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 321–326, 328), including Tuskegee Institute, and colleges and universities eligible for assistance under the Act of October 10, 1962 (76 Stat. 806–807, as amended; 16 U.S.C. 582a, 582a–1–582a–7).
  (c) Use of appropriate educational methods required; scope of methods
     In implementing this section, all appropriate educational methods may be used, including, but not limited to, meetings, short courses, workshops, tours, demonstrations, publications, news releases, and radio and television programs.
