  (a) Cooperative management related to wildfire threats
     The Secretary may cooperate with State foresters and equivalent State officials in the management of lands in the United States for the following purposes:
    (1) Aid in wildfire prevention and control.
    (2) Protect communities from wildfire threats.
    (3) Enhance the growth and maintenance of trees and forests that promote overall forest health.
    (4) Ensure the continued production of all forest resources, including timber, outdoor recreation opportunities, wildlife habitat, and clean water, through conservation of forest cover on watersheds, shelterbelts, and windbreaks.
  (b) Community and Private Land Fire Assistance Program
    (1) Establishment; purpose
       The Secretary shall establish a Community and Private Land Fire Assistance program (in this subsection referred to as the ””Program““)–
      (A) to focus the Federal role in promoting optimal firefighting efficiency at the Federal, State, and local levels;
      (B) to augment Federal projects that establish landscape level protection from wildfires;
      (C) to expand outreach and education programs to homeowners and communities about fire prevention; and
      (D) to establish space around homes and property of private landowners that is defensible against wildfires.
    (2) Administration and implementation
       The Program shall be administered by the Forest Service and implemented through State foresters or equivalent State officials.
    (3) Components
       In coordination with existing authorities under this chapter, the Secretary, in consultation with the State forester or equivalent State official, may undertake on non-Federal lands–
      (A) fuel hazard mitigation and prevention;
      (B) invasive species management;
      (C) multiresource wildfire planning;
      (D) community protection planning;
      (E) community and landowner education enterprises, including the program known as FIREWISE;
      (F) market development and expansion;
      (G) improved wood utilization; and
      (H) special restoration projects.
    (4) Consent required
       Program activities undertaken by the Secretary on non-Federal lands shall be undertaken only with the consent of the owner of the lands.
    (5) Considerations
       The Secretary shall use persons in the local community wherever possible to carry out projects under the Program.
  (c) Consultation
     In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the United States Fire Administration, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the heads of other Federal agencies, as necessary.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section–
    (1) $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2007; and
    (2) such sums as are necessary for fiscal years thereafter.
