  (a) Cooperative and coordinating requirements for implementation of programs, etc.
     In implementing this chapter, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable–
    (1) work through, cooperate with, and assist State foresters or equivalent State officials;
    (2) encourage cooperation and coordination between State foresters or equivalent State officials and other State agencies that manage renewable natural resources;
    (3) use and encourage cooperators under this chapter to use, private agencies, consultants, organizations, firms, and individuals to furnish necessary materials and services; and
    (4) promote effectiveness and economy by coordinating the direct actions and assistance authorized under this chapter with related programs the Secretary administers, and with cooperative programs of other agencies.
  (b) Availability of appropriations
     Money appropriated under this chapter shall remain available until expended.
  (c) Consultation requirements for implementation of programs, etc.
     Requirements for the development of State forest resources programs and State participation in management assistance, planning assistance, and technology implementation, the apportionment of funds among States participating under this chapter, the administrative expenses in connection with activities and programs under this chapter, and the amounts to be expended by the Secretary to assist non-State cooperators under this chapter, shall be determined by the Secretary in consultation with a committee of not less than five State foresters or equivalent State officials selected by a majority of the State foresters or equivalent State officials from States participating in programs under this chapter. However, the Secretary need not consult with such committee regarding funds to be expended under emergency conditions that the Secretary may determine.
  (d) Definitions
     For the purposes of this chapter–
    (1) The terms ””United States““ and ””State““ shall include each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the territories and possessions of the United States;
    (2) The term ””forest resources““ shall include esthetics, fish and wildlife, forage, outdoor recreation opportunities, timber, and water; and
    (3) The term ””urban forestry““ means the planning, establishment, protection, and management of trees and associated plants, individually, in small groups, or under forest conditions within cities, their suburbs, and towns.
  (e) Rules and regulations
     The Secretary may prescribe rules and regulations, as the Secretary deems appropriate, to implement the provisions of this chapter.
  (f) Granting, etc., authorities
     The Secretary is authorized to make grants, agreements, contracts, and other arrangements the Secretary deems necessary to implement this chapter.
  (g) Construction of statutory provisions
     This chapter shall be construed as supplementing all other laws relating to the Department of Agriculture and shall not be construed as limiting or repealing any existing law or authority of the Secretary, except as specifically cited in section 2111 of this title.
  (h) Additional assistance
     In addition to the authority provided elsewhere in this chapter, the Secretary may provide assistance to other countries with respect to the activities described in paragraphs (1) through (10) of section 2102(b) of this title, paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 2104(b) \1\N of this title, and paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 2105(b) of this title. For the purposes of providing assistance to other countries under this subsection, the term ””non-Federal forest land““ shall mean any forest land and related renewable natural resources in such countries. In providing the assistance authorized under this subsection, the Secretary shall coordinate with other Federal officials, departments, agencies, or international organizations, as the President may direct. The references to ””State foresters or equivalent State officials““ in this chapter shall not apply to the assistance provided by the Secretary to other countries under this subsection.
