  (a) In general
     Upon acquisition of the land known as Knob Creek Farm pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the boundary of the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historic Site, established by sections 211 to 214 of this title, is revised to include such land. Lands acquired pursuant to this section shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as part of the historic site.
  (b) Acquisition of Knob Creek Farm
     The Secretary of the Interior may acquire, by donation only, the approximately 228 acres of land known as Knob Creek Farm in Larue County, Kentucky, as generally depicted on a map entitled ””Knob Creek Farm Unit, Abraham Lincoln National Historic Site““, numbered 338/80,077, and dated October 1998. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
  (c) Study and report
     The Secretary of the Interior shall study the Knob Creek Farm in Larue County, Kentucky, and not later than 1 year after November 6, 1998, submit a report to the Congress containing the results of the study. The purpose of the study shall be to:
    (1) Identify significant resources associated with the Knob Creek Farm and the early boyhood of Abraham Lincoln.
    (2) Evaluate the threats to the long-term protection of the Knob Creek Farm“s cultural, recreational, and natural resources.
    (3) Examine the incorporation of the Knob Creek Farm into the operations of the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historic Site and establish a strategic management plan for implementing such incorporation. In developing the plan, the Secretary shall–
      (A) determine infrastructure requirements and property improvements needed at Knob Creek Farm to meet National Park Service standards;
      (B) identify current and potential uses of Knob Creek Farm for recreational, interpretive, and educational opportunities; and
      (C) project costs and potential revenues associated with acquisition, development, and operation of Knob Creek Farm.
  (d) Authorization
     There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (c) of this section.
