   As used in this chapter:
  (1) the \1\N term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (2)    (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term ””chemical substance““ means any organic or inorganic substance of a particular molecular identity, including–
      (i) any combination of such substances occurring in whole or in part as a result of a chemical reaction or occurring in nature and
      (ii) any element or uncombined radical.
    (B) Such term does not include–
      (i) any mixture,
      (ii) any pesticide (as defined in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act [7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.]) when manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce for use as a pesticide,
      (iii) tobacco or any tobacco product,
      (iv) any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct material (as such terms are defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.] and regulations issued under such Act),
      (v) any article the sale of which is subject to the tax imposed by section 4181 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 4181] (determined without regard to any exemptions from such tax provided by section 4182 or 4221 or any other provision of such Code), and
      (vi) any food, food additive, drug, cosmetic, or device (as such terms are defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 321]) when manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce for use as a food, food additive, drug, cosmetic, or device.
         The term ””food““ as used in clause (vi) of this subparagraph includes poultry and poultry products (as defined in sections 4(e) and 4(f) of the Poultry Products Inspection Act [21 U.S.C. 453(e) and (f)]), meat and meat food products (as defined in section 1(j) of the Federal Meat Inspection Act [21 U.S.C. 601(j)]), and eggs and egg products (as defined in section 4 of the Egg Products Inspection Act [21 U.S.C. 1033]).
  (3) The term ””commerce““ means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce (A) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or (B) which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or commerce described in clause (A).
  (4) The terms ””distribute in commerce““ and ””distribution in commerce““ when used to describe an action taken with respect to a chemical substance or mixture or article containing a substance or mixture mean to sell, or the sale of, the substance, mixture, or article in commerce; to introduce or deliver for introduction into commerce, or the introduction or delivery for introduction into commerce of, the substance, mixture, or article; or to hold, or the holding of, the substance, mixture, or article after its introduction into commerce.
  (5) The term ””environment““ includes water, air, and land and the interrelationship which exists among and between water, air, and land and all living things.
  (6) The term ””health and safety study““ means any study of any effect of a chemical substance or mixture on health or the environment or on both, including underlying data and epidemiological studies, studies of occupational exposure to a chemical substance or mixture, toxicological, clinical, and ecological studies of a chemical substance or mixture, and any test performed pursuant to this chapter.
  (7) The term ””manufacture““ means to import into the customs territory of the United States (as defined in general note 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), produce, or manufacture.
  (8) The term ””mixture““ means any combination of two or more chemical substances if the combination does not occur in nature and is not, in whole or in part, the result of a chemical reaction; except that such term does include any combination which occurs, in whole or in part, as a result of a chemical reaction if none of the chemical substances comprising the combination is a new chemical substance and if the combination could have been manufactured for commercial purposes without a chemical reaction at the time the chemical substances comprising the combination were combined.
  (9) The term ””new chemical substance““ means any chemical substance which is not included in the chemical substance list compiled and published under section 2607(b) of this title.
  (10) The term ””process““ means the preparation of a chemical substance or mixture, after its manufacture, for distribution in commerce–
    (A) in the same form or physical state as, or in a different form or physical state from, that in which it was received by the person so preparing such substance or mixture, or
    (B) as part of an article containing the chemical substance or mixture.
  (11) The term ””processor““ means any person who processes a chemical substance or mixture.
  (12) The term ””standards for the development of test data““ means a prescription of–
    (A) the–
      (i) health and environmental effects, and
      (ii) information relating to toxicity, persistence, and other characteristics which affect health and the environment,
     for which test data for a chemical substance or mixture are to be developed and any analysis that is to be performed on such data, and
    (B) to the extent necessary to assure that data respecting such effects and characteristics are reliable and adequate–
      (i) the manner in which such data are to be developed,
      (ii) the specification of any test protocol or methodology to be employed in the development of such data, and
      (iii) such other requirements as are necessary to provide such assurance.
  (13) The term ””State““ means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Canal Zone, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (14) The term ””United States““, when used in the geographic sense, means all of the States.
