  (a) Exchange requirement
    (1) In general
       If, not later than 1 year after October 30, 1998, and in accordance with this section, the State of Utah offers to transfer all right, title, and interest of the State in and to the school trust land described in subsection (b)(1) of this section to the United States, the Secretary–
      (A) shall accept the offer on behalf of the United States; and
      (B) not later than 180 days after the date of acceptance, shall convey to the State of Utah all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described in subsection (b)(2) of this section.
    (2) Simultaneous conveyances
       Title to the school trust land shall be conveyed at the same time as conveyance of title to the Federal lands by the Secretary.
    (3) Valid existing rights
       The land exchange under this section shall be subject to valid existing rights, and each party shall succeed to the rights and obligations of the other party with respect to any lease, right-of-way, or permit encumbering the exchanged land.
  (b) Description of parcels
    (1) State conveyance
       The school trust land to be conveyed by the State of Utah under subsection (a) of this section is section 16, Township 23 South, Range 22 East of the Salt Lake base and meridian.
    (2) Federal conveyance
       The Federal land to be conveyed by the Secretary consists of approximately 639 acres located in section 1, Township 25 South, Range 18 East, Salt Lake base and meridian, and more fully described as follows:
      (A) Lots 1 through 12.
      (B) The S\1/2\N\1/2\ of such section.
      (C) The N\1/2\N\1/2\N\1/2\S\1/2\ of such section.
    (3) Equivalent value
       The Federal land described in paragraph (2) shall be considered to be of equivalent value to that of the school trust land described in paragraph (1).
  (c) Management by State
    (1) In general
       At least 60 days before undertaking or permitting any surface disturbing activities to occur on land acquired by the State of Utah under this section, the State shall consult with the Utah State Office of the Bureau of Land Management concerning the extent and impact of such activities on Federal land and resources and conduct, in a manner consistent with Federal law, inventory, mitigation, and management activities in connection with any archaeological, paleontological, and cultural resources located on the acquired lands.
    (2) Preservation of existing uses
       To the extent that it is consistent with applicable law governing the use and disposition of State school trust land, the State shall preserve existing grazing, recreational, and wildlife uses of the acquired lands in existence on October 30, 1998.
    (3) Activities authorized by management plan
       Nothing in this subsection precludes the State of Utah from authorizing or undertaking a surface or mineral activity that is authorized by a land management plan for the acquired land.
