   As used in this chapter–
  (1) The term ””approved conservation plan““ means the conservation plan of a State approved by the Secretary pursuant to section 2904(a) of this title.
  (2) The term ””conservation plan““ means a plan developed by a State for the conservation of fish and wildlife which meets the requirements set forth in section 2903 of this title.
  (3) The terms ””conserve““, ””conserving““, and ””conservation““ mean to use, and the use of, such methods and procedures which are necessary to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, the well being and enhancement of fish and wildlife and their habitats for the ecological, educational, esthetic, cultural, recreational, and scientific enrichment of the public. Such methods and procedures may include, but are not limited to, any activity associated with scientific resources management, such as research, census, law enforcement, habitat acquisition, maintenance, development, information, education, population manipulation, propagation, technical assistance to private landowners, live trapping, and transplantation.
  (4) The term ””designated State agency““ means the commission, department, division, or other agency of a State which has primary legal authority for the conservation of fish and wildlife. If any State has placed such authority in more than one agency, such term means each such agency acting with respect to its assigned responsibilities but such agencies, for purposes of this chapter, shall submit a single conservation plan.
  (5) The term ””fish and wildlife““ means wild vertebrate animals that are in an unconfined state, including, but not limited to, nongame fish and wildlife.
  (6) The term ””nongame fish and wildlife““ means wild vertebrate animals that are in an unconfined state and that–
    (A) are not ordinarily taken for sport, fur, or food, except that if under applicable State law, any of such animals may be taken for sport, fur, or food in some, but not all, areas of the State, any of such animals within any area of the State in which such taking is not permitted may be deemed to be nongame fish and wildlife;
    (B) are not listed as endangered species or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531–1543); and
    (C) are not marine mammals within the meaning of section 1362(5) \1\N of this title.
   Such term does not include any domesticated species that has reverted to a feral existence.
  (7) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (8) The term ””State““ means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
