  (a) Area designated
     The Secretary shall initiate and carry out a study of all Federal lands (other than submerged lands on the Outer Continental Shelf) in Alaska north of 68 degrees north latitude and east of the western boundary of the National Petroleum Reserve–Alaska, other than lands included in the National Petroleum Reserve–Alaska and in conservation system units established by this Act.
  (b) Purposes
     The study shall utilize a systematic interdisciplinary approach to–
    (1) assess the potential oil and gas resources of these lands and make recommendations concerning future use and management of those resources including an evaluation of alternative transportation routes needed for oil and gas development;
    (2) review the wilderness characteristics, and make recommendations for wilderness designation, of these lands; and
    (3) study, and make recommendations for protection of, the wildlife resources of these lands.
  (c) Findings
     After completion of the study, the Secretary shall make findings on–
    (1) the potential oil and gas resources of these lands;
    (2) the impact of oil and gas development on the wildlife resources on these lands, particularly the Arctic and Porcupine caribou herds and the polar bear;
    (3) the national need for development of the oil and gas resources of all or any portion of these lands;
    (4) the national interests in preservation of the wilderness characteristics of these lands; and
    (5) the national interest in protection of the wildlife resources of these lands.
  (d) Consultations; opportunity for public review and comment
     In the course of the study, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Energy and other Federal agencies, the State of Alaska, Native Village and Regional Corporations, the North Slope Borough, the Alaska Land Use Council and the Government of Canada. The Secretary shall provide an opportunity for public review and comment on a draft study and proposed findings prior to their final approval.
  (e) Report to President and Congress; annual report to Congress
     The Secretary shall submit the study and his findings to the President and the Congress no later than eight years after December 2, 1980. The Secretary shall submit annual reports to Congress on the progress in carrying out this subchapter.
  (f) Selection and conveyance of land by State and Natives unaffected
     Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as impeding, delaying, or otherwise affecting the selection and conveyance of land to the State pursuant to the Alaska Statehood Act, or any other Federal law referred to in section 3102(3)(A) of this title, and to the Natives pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.] and this Act.
