  (a) Development; transmittal to Congressional committees
     Within five years from December 2, 1980, the Secretary shall develop and transmit to the appropriate Committees of the Congress a conservation and management plan for each of the units of the National Park System established or to which additions are made by this Act.
  (b) National Park service plan requirements
     Each plan for a unit established, redesignated, or expanded by subchapter LIX–F of chapter 1 of this title shall identify management practices which will carry out the policies of this Act and will accomplish the purposes for which the concerned National Park System unit was established or expanded and shall include at least the following:
    (1) Maps indicating areas of particular importance as to wilderness, natural, historical, wildlife, cultural, archeological, paleontological, geological, recreational, and similar resources and also indicating the areas into which such unit will be divided for administrative purposes.
    (2) A description of the programs and methods that will be employed to manage fish and wildlife resources and habitats, cultural, geological, recreational, and wilderness resources, and how each conservation system unit will contribute to overall resources management goals of that region. Such programs should include research, protection, restoration, development, and interpretation as appropriate.
    (3) A description of any areas of potential or proposed development, indicating types of visitor services and facilities to be provided, the estimated costs of such services and facilities, and whether or not such services and facilities could and should be provided outside the boundaries of such unit.
    (4) A plan for access to, and circulation within, such unit, indicating the type and location of transportation routes and facilities, if any.
    (5) A description of the programs and methods which the Secretary plans to use for the purposes of (A) encouraging the recognition and protection of the culture and history of the individuals residing, on December 2, 1980, in such unit and areas in the vicinity of such unit, and (B) providing and encouraging employment of such individuals.
    (6) A plan for acquiring land with respect to such unit, including proposed modifications in the boundaries of such unit.
    (7) A description (A) of privately owned areas, if any, which are within such unit, (B) of activities carried out in, or proposed for, such areas, (C) of the present and potential effects of such activities on such unit, (D) of the purposes for which such areas are used, and (E) of methods (such as cooperative agreements and issuance or enforcement of regulations) of controlling the use of such activities to carry out the policies of this Act and the purposes for which such unit is established or expanded.
    (8) A plan indicating the relationship between the management of such unit and activities being carried out in, or proposed for, surrounding areas and also indicating cooperative agreements which could and should be entered into for the purpose of improving such management.
  (c) Consideration of factors
     In developing, preparing, and revising a plan under this section the Secretary shall take into consideration at least the following factors:
    (1) The specific purposes for which the concerned conservation system unit was established or expanded.
    (2) Protection and preservation of the ecological, environmental, wildlife, cultural, historical, archeological, geological, recreational, wilderness, and scenic character of the concerned unit and of areas in the vicinity of such unit.
    (3) Providing opportunities for Alaska Natives residing in the concerned unit and areas adjacent to such unit to continue performing in such unit activities which they have traditionally or historically performed in such unit.
    (4) Activities being carried out in areas adjacent to, or surrounded by, the concerned unit.
  (d) Hearing and participation
     In developing, preparing, and revising a plan under this section the Secretary shall hold at least one public hearing in the vicinity of the concerned conservation unit, hold at least one public hearing in a metropolitan area of Alaska, and, to the extent practicable, permit the following persons to participate in the development, preparation, and revision of such plan:
    (1) The Alaska Land Use Council and officials of Federal agencies whose activities will be significantly affected by implementation of such plan.
    (2) Officials of the State and of political subdivisions of the State whose activities will be significantly affected by implementation of such plan.
    (3) Officials of Native Corporations which will be significantly affected by implementation of such plan.
    (4) Concerned local, State, and National organizations and interested individuals.
