   For purposes of this chapter–
  (1) The term ””undeveloped coastal barrier““ means–
    (A) a depositional geologic feature (such as a bay barrier, tombolo, barrier spit, or barrier island) that–
      (i) is subject to wave, tidal, and wind energies, and
      (ii) protects landward aquatic habitats from direct wave attack; and
    (B) all associated aquatic habitats, including the adjacent wetlands, marshes, estuaries, inlets, and nearshore waters;
   but only if such feature and associated habitats contain few manmade structures and these structures, and man“s activities on such feature and within such habitats, do not significantly impede geomorphic and ecological processes.
  (2) The term ””Committees““ means the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.
  (3) The term ””financial assistance““ means any form of loan, grant, guaranty, insurance, payment, rebate, subsidy, or any other form of direct or indirect Federal assistance other than–
    (A) deposit or account insurance for customers of banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, or similar institutions;
    (B) the purchase of mortgages or loans by the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
    (C) assistance for environmental studies, planning, and assessments that are required incident to the issuance of permits or other authorizations under Federal law; and
    (D) assistance pursuant to programs entirely unrelated to development, such as any Federal or federally assisted public assistance program or any Federal old-age survivors or disability insurance program.
   Such term includes flood insurance described in section 4028 of title 42.
  (4) The term ””Great Lakes““ means Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, Lake St. Clair, Lake Michigan, and Lake Superior, to the extent that those lakes are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
  (5) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (6) The term ””System““ means the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System established by section 3503(a) of this title.
  (7) The term ””System unit““ means any undeveloped coastal barrier, or combination of closely-related undeveloped coastal barriers, included within the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System established by section 3503 of this title.
