  (a) Establishment
     There is established the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System, which shall consist of those undeveloped coastal barriers and other areas located on the coasts of the United States that are identified and generally depicted on the maps on file with the Secretary entitled ””Coastal Barrier Resources System““, dated October 24, 1990, as those maps may be modified, revised, or corrected under–
    (1) subsection (f)(3) of this section;
    (2) section 4 of the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note; Public Law 101–591); or
    (3) any other provision of law enacted on or after November 16, 1990, that specifically authorizes the modification, revision, or correction.
  (b) System maps
     The Secretary shall keep the maps referred to in subsection (a) of this section on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and in such other offices of that service as the Director considers appropriate.
  (c) Boundary review and modification
     At least once every 5 years, the Secretary shall review the maps referred to in subsection (a) of this section and shall make, in consultation with the appropriate State, local, and Federal officials, such minor and technical modifications to the boundaries of System units as are necessary solely to reflect changes that have occurred in the size or location of any System unit as a result of natural forces.
  (d) Additions to System
     The Secretary may add a parcel of real property to the System, if–
    (1) the owner of the parcel requests, in writing, that the Secretary add the parcel to the System; and
    (2) the parcel is an undeveloped coastal barrier.
  (e) Addition of excess Federal property
    (1) Consultation and determination
       Prior to transfer or disposal of excess property under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) that may be an undeveloped coastal barrier, the Administrator of General Services shall consult with and obtain from the Secretary a determination as to whether and what portion of the property constitutes an undeveloped coastal barrier. Not later than 180 days after the initiation of such consultation, the Secretary shall make and publish notice of such determination. Immediately upon issuance of a positive determination, the Secretary shall–
      (A) prepare a map depicting the undeveloped coastal barrier portion of such property; and
      (B) publish in the Federal Register notice of the addition of such property to the System.
    (2) Effective date of inclusion
       An area to be added to the System under this subsection shall be part of the System effective on the date on which the Secretary publishes notice in the Federal Register under paragraph (1)(B) with respect to that area.
  (f) Maps
     The Secretary shall–
    (1) keep a map showing the location of each boundary modification made under subsection (c) of this section and of each parcel of real property added to the System under subsection (d) or (e) of this section on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and in such other offices of the Service as the Director considers appropriate;
    (2) provide a copy of the map to–
      (A) the State and unit of local government in which the property is located;
      (B) the Committees; and
      (C) the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
    (3) revise the maps referred to in subsection (a) of this section to reflect each boundary modification under subsection (c) of this section and each addition of real property to the System under subsection (d) or (e) of this section, after publishing in the Federal Register a notice of any such proposed revision.
  (g) Guidelines for certain recommendations and determinations
    (1) In general
       In making any recommendation to the Congress regarding the addition of any area to the System or in determining whether, at the time of the inclusion of a System unit within the System, a coastal barrier is undeveloped, the Secretary shall consider whether within the area–
      (A) the density of development is less than 1 structure per 5 acres of land above mean high tide; and
      (B) there is existing infrastructure consisting of–
        (i) a road, with a reinforced road bed, to each lot or building site in the area;
        (ii) a wastewater disposal system sufficient to serve each lot or building site in the area;
        (iii) electric service for each lot or building site in the area; and
        (iv) a fresh water supply for each lot or building site in the area.
    (2) Structure defined
       In paragraph (1), the term ””structure““ means a walled and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that–
      (A) is principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, including a manufactured home on a permanent foundation; and
      (B) covers an area of at least 200 square feet.
    (3) Savings clause
       Nothing in this subsection supersedes the official maps referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
