  (a) Enlisted Personnel Boards shall be convened as the Commandant may prescribe to review the records of enlisted members who have twenty or more years of active military service.    
  (b) Enlisted members who have twenty or more years of active military service may be considered by the Commandant for involuntary retirement and may be retired on recommendation of a Board–    
    (1) because the member“s performance is below the standards the Commandant prescribes; or    
    (2) because of professional dereliction.    
  (c) An enlisted member under review by the Board shall be–    
    (1) notified in writing of the reasons the member is being considered for involuntary retirement;    
    (2) allowed sixty days from the date on which counsel is provided under paragraph (3) to submit any matters in rebuttal;    
    (3) provided counsel, certified under section 827(b) of title 10, to help prepare the rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2) and to represent the member before the Board under paragraph (5);    
    (4) allowed full access to and be furnished with copies of records relevant to the consideration for involuntary retirement prior to submission of the rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2); and    
    (5) allowed to appear before the Board and present witnesses or other documentation related to the review.    
  (d) A Board convened under this section shall consist of at least three commissioned officers, at least one of whom shall be of the grade of commander or above.    
  (e) A Board convened under this section shall recommend to the Commandant enlisted members who–    
    (1) have twenty or more years of active service;    
    (2) have been considered for involuntary retirement; and    
    (3) it determines should be involuntarily retired.    
  (f) After the Board makes its determination, each enlisted member the Commandant considers for involuntary retirement shall be–    
    (1) notified by certified mail of the reasons the member is being considered for involuntary retirement;    
    (2) allowed sixty days from the date counsel is provided under paragraph (3) to submit any matters in rebuttal;    
    (3) provided counsel, certified under section 827(b) of title 10, to help prepare the rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2); and    
    (4) allowed full access to and be furnished with copies of records relevant to the consideration for involuntary retirement prior to submission of the rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2).    
  (g) If the Commandant approves the Board“s recommendation, the enlisted member shall be notified of the Commandant“s decision and shall be retired from the service within ninety days of the notification.    
  (h) An enlisted member, who has completed twenty years of service and who the Commandant has involuntarily retired under this section, shall receive retired pay.    
    (i) An enlisted member voluntarily or involuntarily retired after twenty years of service who was cited for extraordinary heroism in the line of duty shall be entitled to an increase in retired pay. The retired pay shall be increased by 10 percent of–    
      (1) the active-duty pay and permanent additions thereto of the grade or rating with which retired when the member“s retired pay is computed under section 423(a) of this title; or    
      (2) the member“s retired pay base under section 1407 of title 10, when a member“s retired pay is computed under section 423(b) of this title.    
    (j) When the Secretary orders a reduction in force, enlisted personnel may be involuntarily separated from the service without the Board“s action.    
