   As used in this chapter–
  (1) The terms ””conserve““ and ””conservation““ mean to use, and the use of, such methods and procedures which are necessary to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, the well being and enhancement of fish and wildlife and their habitats for the educational, aesthetic, cultural, recreational, scientific, and ecological enrichment of the public. Such methods and procedures may include, but are not limited to, any activity associated with scientific resources management, such as research, census, law enforcement, habitat acquisition, maintenance, development, information, education, population manipulation, propagation, technical assistance to private landowners, live trapping, and transplantation.
  (2) The term ””designated State agency““ means the government agency, department, or division of any State that is empowered under the laws of the State to exercise the functions ordinarily exercised by a State fish and wildlife agency.
  (3) The term ””fish and wildlife““ means wild members of the animal kingdom that are in an unconfined state.
  (4) The term ””Fund““ means the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation Fund established under section 3744(g) of this title.
  (5) The term ””National Fish and Wildlife Foundation““ means the charitable and nonprofit corporation established under section 3701 of this title.
  (6) The term ””nonconsumptive activities““ means fish and wildlife associated activities other than harvesting of fish and wildlife and includes, but is not limited to, photographing, observing, learning about, or associating with, fish and wildlife.
  (7) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
  (8) The term ””State““ means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, or American Samoa.
  (9) The term ””wildlife conservation and appreciation project““ means a project which is directed toward nonconsumptive activities or toward the conservation of those species of fish and wildlife that–
    (A) are not ordinarily taken for recreation, fur, or food; except that if under applicable State law, any fish and wildlife may be taken for recreation, fur, or food in some but not all, areas of the State, a wildlife conservation and appreciation project may be directed toward the conservation of any of such fish and wildlife within any area of the State in which such taking is not permitted;
    (B) are not listed as endangered species or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531–1543); and
    (C) are not marine mammals within the meaning of section 1362(6) of this title.
