  (a) Production on converted wetland
     Except as provided in this subchapter and notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person who in any crop year produces an agricultural commodity on converted wetland, as determined by the Secretary, shall be–
    (1) in violation of this section; and
    (2) ineligible for loans or payments in an amount determined by the Secretary to be proportionate to the severity of the violation.
  (b) Ineligibility for certain loans and payments
     If a person is determined to have committed a violation under subsection (a) of this section during a crop year, the Secretary shall determine which of, and the amount of, the following loans and payments for which the person shall be ineligible:
    (1) Contract payments under a production flexibility contract, marketing assistance loans, and any type of price support or payment made available under the Agricultural Market Transition Act [7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.], the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.), or any other Act.
    (2) A loan made or guaranteed under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) or any other provision of law administered by the Consolidated Farm Service Agency, if the Secretary determines that the proceeds of the loan will be used for a purpose that will contribute to conversion of a wetland (other than as provided in this subchapter) to produce an agricultural commodity.
    (3) During the crop year:
      (A) A payment made pursuant to a contract entered into under the environmental quality incentives program under part IV of subchapter IV of this chapter.
      (B) A payment under any other provision of subchapter IV of this chapter.
      (C) A payment under section 2201 or 2202 of this title.
      (D) A payment, loan, or other assistance under section 1003 or 1006a of this title.
  (c) Wetland conversion
     Except as provided in section 3822 of this title and notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person who in any crop year beginning after November 28, 1990, converts a wetland by draining, dredging, filling, leveling, or any other means for the purpose, or to have the effect, of making the production of an agricultural commodity possible on such converted wetland shall be ineligible for those payments, loans, or programs specified in subsection (b) of this section for that crop year and all subsequent crop years.
  (d) Prior loans
     This section shall not apply to a loan described in subsection (b) of this section made before December 23, 1985.
  (e) Wetland
     The Secretary shall have, and shall not delegate to any private person or entity, authority to determine whether a person has complied with this subchapter.
