  (a) Establishment
    (1) In general
       During the 1996 through 2002 calendar years, the Secretary shall establish an environmental conservation acreage reserve program (referred to in this section as ””ECARP““) to be implemented through contracts and the acquisition of easements to assist owners and operators of farms and ranches to conserve and enhance soil, water, and related natural resources, including grazing land, wetland, and wildlife habitat.
    (2) Means
       The Secretary shall carry out the ECARP by–
      (A) providing for the long-term protection of environmentally sensitive land; and
      (B) providing technical and financial assistance to farmers and ranchers to–
        (i) improve the management and operation of the farms and ranches; and
        (ii) reconcile productivity and profitability with protection and enhancement of the environment.
    (3) Programs
       The ECARP shall consist of–
      (A) the conservation reserve program established under subpart B;
      (B) the wetlands reserve program established under subpart C; and
      (C) the environmental quality incentives program established under part IV of this subchapter.
  (b) Administration
    (1) In general
       In carrying out the ECARP, the Secretary shall enter into contracts with owners and operators and acquire interests in land through easements from owners, as provided in this part and part IV of this subchapter.
    (2) Prior enrollments
       Acreage enrolled in the conservation reserve or wetlands reserve program prior to April 4, 1996, shall be considered to be placed into the ECARP.
  (c) Conservation priority areas
    (1) Designation
       The Secretary may designate watersheds, multistate areas, or regions of special environmental sensitivity as conservation priority areas that are eligible for enhanced assistance under this part and part IV of this subchapter.
    (2) Assistance
       The Secretary may designate areas as conservation priority areas to assist, to the maximum extent practicable, agricultural producers within the conservation priority areas to comply with nonpoint source pollution requirements under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) and other Federal and State environmental laws and to meet other conservation needs.
    (3) Producers
       The Secretary may provide technical assistance, cost-share payments, and incentive payments to producers in a conservation priority area under this part and part IV of this subchapter based on–
      (A) the significance of the soil, water, wildlife habitat, and related natural resource problems in a watershed, multistate area, or region; and
      (B) the structural practices or land management practices that best address the problems, and that maximize environmental benefits for each dollar expended, as determined by the Secretary.
