  (a) In general
     Through the 2007 calendar year, the Secretary shall formulate and carry out a conservation reserve program under which land is enrolled through the use of contracts to assist owners and operators of land specified in subsection (b) of this section to conserve and improve the soil, water, and wildlife resources of such land.
  (b) Eligible land
     The Secretary may include in the program established under this subpart–
    (1) highly erodible cropland that–
      (A)        (i) if permitted to remain untreated could substantially reduce the agricultural production capability for future generations; or
        (ii) cannot be farmed in accordance with a plan that complies with the requirements of subchapter II of this chapter; and
      (B) the Secretary determines had a cropping history or was considered to be planted for 4 of the 6 years preceding May 13, 2002 (except for land enrolled in the conservation reserve program as of May 13, 2002).
    (2) marginal pasture land converted to wetland or established as wildlife habitat prior to November 28, 1990;
    (3) marginal pasture land to be devoted to appropriate vegetation, including trees, in or near riparian areas, or devoted to similar water quality purposes (including marginal pastureland converted to wetland or established as wildlife habitat);
    (4) cropland that is otherwise ineligible if the Secretary determines that–
      (A) if permitted to remain in agricultural production, the land would–
        (i) contribute to the degradation of soil, water, or air quality; or
        (ii) pose an on-site or off-site environmental threat to soil, water, or air quality;
      (B) the land is a–
        (i) newly-created, permanent grass sod waterway; or
        (ii) a contour grass sod strip established and maintained as part of an approved conservation plan;
      (C) the land will be devoted to newly established living snow fences, permanent wildlife habitat, windbreaks, shelterbelts, or filterstrips devoted to trees or shrubs; or
      (D) the land poses an off-farm environmental threat, or a threat of continued degradation of productivity due to soil salinity, if permitted to remain in production; and
      (E) enrollment of the land would facilitate a net savings in groundwater or surface water resources of the agricultural operation of the producer;
    (5) the portion of land in a field not enrolled in the conservation reserve in a case in which more than 50 percent of the land in the field is enrolled as a buffer, if–
      (A) the land is enrolled as part of the buffer; and
      (B) the remainder of the field is–
        (i) infeasible to farm; and
        (ii) enrolled at regular rental rates.
  (c) Planting status of certain land
     For purposes of determining the eligibility of land to be placed in the conservation reserve established under this subpart, land shall be considered to be planted to an agricultural commodity during a crop year if–
    (1) during the crop year, the land was devoted to a conserving use; or
    (2)      (A) during the crop year or during any of the 2 years preceding the crop year, the land was enrolled in the water bank program; and
      (B) the contract of the owner or operator of the cropland expired or will expire in calendar year 2000, 2001, or 2002.
  (d) Maximum enrollment
     The Secretary may maintain up to 39,200,000 acres in the conservation reserve at any 1 time during the 2002 through 2007 calendar years (including contracts extended by the Secretary pursuant to section 1437(c) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3831 note; Public Law 101–624)).
  (e) Duration of contract
    (1) In general
       For the purpose of carrying out this subpart, the Secretary shall enter into contracts of not less than 10, nor more than 15, years.
    (2) Certain land
      (A) In general
         In the case of land devoted to hardwood trees, shelterbelts, windbreaks, or wildlife corridors under a contract entered into under this subpart after October 1, 1990, and land devoted to such uses under contracts modified under section 3835a of this title, the owner or operator of the land may, within the limitations prescribed under this section, specify the duration of the contract.
      (B) Hardwood trees
         In the case of land that is devoted to hardwood trees under a contract entered into under this subpart prior to October 1, 1990, the Secretary may extend the contract for a term of not to exceed 5 years, as agreed to by the owner or operator of such land and the Secretary.
    (3) 1-year extension
       In the case of a contract described in paragraph (1) the term of which expires during calendar year 2002, an owner or operator of land enrolled under the contract may extend the contract for 1 additional year.
  (f) Conservation priority areas
    (1) Designation
       On application by the appropriate State agency, the Secretary shall designate watershed areas of the Chesapeake Bay Region (Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia), the Great Lakes Region, the Long Island Sound Region, and other areas of special environmental sensitivity as conservation priority areas.
    (2) Eligible watersheds
       Watersheds eligible for designation under this subsection shall include areas with actual and significant adverse water quality or habitat impacts related to agricultural production activities.
    (3) Expiration
       Conservation priority area designation under this subsection shall expire after 5 years, subject to redesignation, except that the Secretary may withdraw a watershed“s designation–
      (A) on application by the appropriate State agency; or
      (B) in the case of an area covered by this subsection, if the Secretary finds that the area no longer contains actual and significant adverse water quality or habitat impacts related to agricultural production activities.
    (4) Duty of Secretary
       In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall attempt to maximize water quality and habitat benefits in the watersheds described in paragraph (1) by promoting a significant level of enrollment of land within the watersheds in the program under this subpart by whatever means the Secretary determines are appropriate and consistent with the purposes of this subpart.
  (g) Multi-year grasses and legumes
     For purposes of this subpart, alfalfa and other multi-year grasses and legumes in a rotation practice, approved by the Secretary, shall be considered agricultural commodities.
  (h) Pilot program for enrollment of wetland and buffer acreage in conservation reserve
    (1) Program
      (A) In general
         During the 2002 through 2007 calendar years, the Secretary shall carry out a program in each State under which the Secretary shall include eligible acreage described in paragraph (2) in the program established under this subpart.
      (B) Participation among States
         The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that owners and operators in each State have an equitable opportunity to participate in the pilot program established under this subsection.
    (2) Eligible acreage
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraphs (B) through (D), an owner or operator may enroll in the conservation reserve under this subsection–
        (i) a wetland (including a converted wetland described in section 3822(b)(1)(A) of this title) that was cropped during at least 3 of the immediately preceding 10 crop years; and
        (ii) buffer acreage that–
          (I) is contiguous to the wetland described in clause (i);
          (II) is used to protect the wetland; and
          (III) is of such width as the Secretary determines is necessary to protect the wetland, taking into consideration and accommodating the farming practices (including the straightening of boundaries to accommodate machinery) used with respect to the cropland that surrounds the wetland.
      (B) Exclusions
         An owner or operator may not enroll in the conservation reserve under this subsection–
        (i) any wetland, or land on a floodplain, that is, or is adjacent to, a perennial riverine system wetland identified on the final national wetland inventory map of the Secretary of the Interior; or
        (ii) in the case of an area that is not covered by the final national inventory map, any wetland, or land on a floodplain, that is adjacent to a perennial stream identified on a 1-24,000 scale map of the United States Geological Survey.
      (C) Program limitations
        (i) In general
           The Secretary may enroll in the conservation reserve under this subsection not more than–
          (I) 100,000 acres in any 1 State referred to in paragraph (1); and
          (II) not more than a total of 1,000,000 acres.
        (ii) Relationship to program maximum
           Subject to clause (iii), for the purposes of subsection (d) of this section, any acreage enrolled in the conservation reserve under this subsection shall be considered acres maintained in the conservation reserve.
        (iii) Relationship to other enrolled acreage
           Acreage enrolled under this subsection shall not affect for any fiscal year the quantity of–
          (I) acreage enrolled to establish conservation buffers as part of the program announced on March 24, 1998 (63 Fed. Reg. 14109); or
          (II) acreage enrolled into the conservation reserve enhancement program announced on May 27, 1998 (63 Fed. Reg. 28965).
        (iv) Review; potential increase in enrollment acreage
           Not later than 3 years after May 13, 2002, the Secretary shall–
          (I) conduct a review of the program under this subsection with respect to each State that has enrolled land in the program; and
          (II) notwithstanding clause (i)(I), increase the number of acres that may be enrolled by a State under clause (i)(I) to not more than 150,000 acres, as determined by the Secretary.
      (D) Owner or operator limitations
        (i) Wetland
          (I) In general
             The maximum size of any wetland described in subparagraph (A)(i) of an owner or operator enrolled in the conservation reserve under this subsection shall be 10 contiguous acres, of which not more than 5 acres shall be eligible for payment.
          (II) Coverage
             All acres described in subclause (I) (including acres that are ineligible for payment) shall be covered by the conservation contract.
        (ii) Buffer acreage
           The maximum size of any buffer acreage described in subparagraph (A)(ii) of an owner or operator enrolled in the conservation reserve under this subsection shall be the greater of–
          (I) 3 times the size of any wetland described in subparagraph (A)(i) to which the buffer acreage is contiguous; or
          (II) 150 feet on either side of the wetland.
        (iii) Tracts
           The maximum size of any eligible acreage described in subparagraph (A) in a tract (as determined by the Secretary) of an owner or operator enrolled in the conservation reserve under this subsection shall be 40 acres.
    (3) Duties of owners and operators
       Under a contract entered into under this subsection, during the term of the contract, an owner or operator of a farm or ranch shall agree–
      (A) to restore the hydrology of the wetland within the eligible acreage to the maximum extent practicable, as determined by the Secretary;
      (B) to establish vegetative cover (which may include emerging vegetation in water) on the eligible acreage, as determined by the Secretary; and
      (C) to carry out other duties described in section 3832 of this title.
    (4) Duties of the Secretary
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), in return for a contract entered into by an owner or operator under this subsection, the Secretary shall make payments and provide assistance to the owner or operator in accordance with sections 3833 and 3834 of this title.
      (B) Continuous signup
         The Secretary shall use continuous signup under section 3834(c)(2)(B) of this title to determine the acceptability of contract offers and the amount of rental payments under this subsection.
      (C) Incentives
         The amounts payable to owners and operators in the form of rental payments under contracts entered into under this subsection shall reflect incentives that are provided to owners and operators to enroll filterstrips in the conservation reserve under section 3834 of this title.
        (i) Eligibility for consideration
           On the expiration of a contract entered into under this subpart, the land subject to the contract shall be eligible to be considered for reenrollment in the conservation reserve.
        (j) Balance of natural resource purposes
           In determining the acceptability of contract offers under this subpart, the Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, an equitable balance among the conservation purposes of soil erosion, water quality, and wildlife habitat.
        (k) Emergency forestry conservation reserve program
          (1) Definitions
             In this subsection:
            (A) Merchantable timber
               The term ””merchantable timber““ means timber on private nonindustrial forest land on which the average tree has a trunk diameter of at least 6 inches measured at a point no less than 4.5 feet above the ground.
            (B) Private nonindustrial forest land
               The term ””private nonindustrial forest land““ includes State school trust land.
          (2) Program
             The Secretary shall carry out an emergency pilot program in States that the Secretary determines have suffered damage to merchantable timber in counties affected by hurricanes during the 2005 calendar year.
          (3) Eligible acreage
            (A) In general
               Subject to subparagraph (B) and the availability of funds under subparagraph (G), an owner or operator may enroll private nonindustrial forest land in the conservation reserve under this subsection.
            (B) Determination of damages
               Eligibility for enrollment shall be limited to owners and operators of private nonindustrial forest land that have experienced a loss of 35 percent or more of merchantable timber in a county affected by hurricanes during the 2005 calendar year.
            (C) Exemptions
               Acreage enrolled in the conservation reserve under this subsection shall not count toward–
              (i) county acreage limitations described in section 3843(b) of this title; or
              (ii) the maximum enrollment described in subsection (d) of this section.
            (D) Duties of owners and operators
               As a condition of entering into a contract under this subsection, during the term of the contract, the owner or operator of private nonindustrial forest land shall agree–
              (i) to restore the land, through site preparation and planting of similar species as existing prior to hurricane damages or to the maximum extent practicable with other native species, as determined by the Secretary; and
              (ii) to establish temporary vegetative cover the purpose of which is to prevent soil erosion on the eligible acreage, as determined by the Secretary.
            (E) Duties of the Secretary
              (i) In general
                 In return for a contract entered into by an owner or operator of private nonindustrial forest land under this subsection, the Secretary shall provide, at the option of the landowner–
                (I) notwithstanding the limitation in section 3834(f)(1) of this title, a lump sum payment; or
                (II) annual rental payments.
              (ii) Calculation of lump sum payment
                 The lump sum payment described in clause (i)(I) shall be calculated using a net present value formula, as determined by the Secretary, based on the total amount a producer would receive over the duration of the contract.
              (iii) Calculation of annual rental payments
                 The annual rental payment described in clause (i)(II) shall be equal to the average rental rate for conservation reserve contracts in the county in which the land is located.
              (iv) Rolling signup
                 The Secretary shall offer a rolling signup for contracts under this subsection.
              (v) Duration of contracts
                 A contract entered into under this subsection shall have a term of 10 years.
            (F) Balance of natural resources
               In determining the acceptability of contract offers under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider an equitable balance among the purposes of soil erosion prevention, water quality improvement, wildlife habitat restoration, and mitigation of economic loss.
            (G) Funding
               The Secretary shall use $504,100,000, to remain available until expended, of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this subsection.
            (H) Determinations by Secretary
               A determination made by the Secretary under this subsection shall be final and conclusive.
              (I) Regulations
                (i) In general
                   Not later than 90 days after December 30, 2005, the Secretary shall promulgate such regulations as are necessary to implement this subsection.
                (ii) Procedure
                   The promulgation of regulations and administration of this subsection shall be made without regard to–
                  (I) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of title 5;
                  (II) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in rulemaking; and
                  (III) chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly known as the ””Paperwork Reduction Act““).
                (iii) Congressional review of agency rulemaking
                   In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall use the authority provided under section 808 of title 5.
