  (a) Timing
     The Secretary shall provide payment for obligations incurred by the Secretary under a contract entered into under this subpart–
    (1) with respect to any cost-sharing payment obligation incurred by the Secretary, as soon as practicable after the obligation is incurred; and
    (2) with respect to any annual rental payment obligation incurred by the Secretary–
      (A) as soon as practicable after October 1 of each calendar year; or
      (B) at the option of the Secretary, at any time prior to such date during the year that the obligation is incurred.
  (b) Federal percentage of cost sharing payments
    (1) In general
       In making cost sharing payments to an owner or operator under a contract entered into under this subpart, the Secretary shall pay 50 percent of the cost of establishing water quality and conservation measures and practices required under each contract for which the Secretary determines that cost sharing is appropriate and in the public interest.
    (2) Limitation
       The Secretary shall not make any payment to an owner or operator under this subpart to the extent that the total amount of cost sharing payments provided to the owner or operator from all sources would exceed 100 percent of the total cost of establishing measures and practices described in paragraph (1).
    (3) Trees, windbreaks, shelterbelts, and wildlife corridors
      (A) Applicability
         This paragraph applies to–
        (i) land devoted to the production of hardwood trees, windbreaks, shelterbelts, or wildlife corridors under a contract entered into under this subpart after November 28, 1990;
        (ii) land converted to such production under section 3835a of this title; and
        (iii) land on which an owner or operator agrees to conduct thinning authorized by section 3832(a)(9) of this title, if the thinning is necessary to improve the condition of resources on the land.
      (B) Payments
        (i) Percentage
           In making cost share payments to an owner or operator of land described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall pay 50 percent of the reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the owner or operator for maintaining trees or shrubs, including the cost of replanting (if the trees or shrubs were lost due to conditions beyond the control of the owner or operator) or thinning.
        (ii) Duration
           The Secretary shall make payments as described in clause (i) for a period of not less than 2 years, but not more than 4 years, beginning on the date of–
          (I) the planting of the trees or shrubs; or
          (II) the thinning of existing stands to improve the condition of resources on the land.
    (4) Hardwood tree planting
       The Secretary may permit owners or operators that contract to devote at least 10 acres of land to the production of hardwood trees under this subpart to extend the planting of the trees over a 3-year period if at least \1/3\ of the trees are planted in each of the first 2 years.
    (5) Other Federal cost share assistance
       An owner or operator shall not be eligible to receive or retain cost share assistance under this subsection if the owner or operator receives any other Federal cost share assistance with respect to the land under any other provision of law.
  (c) Annual rental payments
    (1) In general
       In determining the amount of annual rental payments to be paid to owners and operators for converting highly erodible cropland normally devoted to the production of an agricultural commodity to less intensive use, the Secretary may consider, among other things, the amount necessary to encourage owners or operators of highly erodible cropland to participate in the program established by this subpart.
    (2) Method of determination
       The amounts payable to owners or operators in the form of rental payments under contracts entered into under this subpart may be determined through–
      (A) the submission of bids for such contracts by owners and operators in such manner as the Secretary may prescribe; or
      (B) such other means as the Secretary determines are appropriate.
    (3) Acceptance of contract offers
      (A) Evaluation of offers
         In determining the acceptability of contract offers, the Secretary may take into consideration the extent to which enrollment of the land that is the subject of the contract offer would improve soil resources, water quality, or wildlife habitat or provide other environmental benefits.
      (B) Establishment of different criteria in various States and regions
         The Secretary may establish different criteria for determining the acceptability of contract offers in various States and regions of the United States based on the extent to which water quality or wildlife habitat may be improved or erosion may be abated.
      (C) Local preference
         In determining the acceptability of contract offers for new enrollments, the Secretary shall accept, to the maximum extent practicable, an offer from an owner or operator that is a resident of the county in which the land is located or of a contiguous county if, as determined by the Secretary, the land would provide at least equivalent conservation benefits to land under competing offers.
    (4) Hardwood tree acreage
       In the case of acreage enrolled in the conservation reserve established under this subpart that is to be devoted to hardwood trees, the Secretary may consider bids for contracts under this subsection on a continuous basis.
    (5) Rental rates
      (A) Annual estimates
         The Secretary (acting through the National Agricultural Statistics Service) shall conduct an annual survey of per acre estimates of county average market dryland and irrigated cash rental rates for cropland and pastureland in all counties or equivalent subdivisions within each State that have 20,000 acres or more of cropland and pastureland.
      (B) Public availability of estimates
         The estimates derived from the annual survey conducted under subparagraph (A) shall be maintained on a website of the Department of Agriculture for use by the general public.
  (d) Cash or in-kind payments
    (1) In general
       Except as otherwise provided in this section, payments under this subpart–
      (A) shall be made in cash or in commodities in such amount and on such time schedule as is agreed on and specified in the contract; and
      (B) may be made in advance of determination of performance.
    (2) Method of providing in-kind payments
       If the payment to an owner or operator is made with in-kind commodities, the payment shall be made by the Commodity Credit Corporation–
      (A) by delivery of the commodity involved to the owner or operator at a warehouse or other similar facility located in the county in which the highly erodible cropland is located or at such other location as is agreed to by the Secretary and the owner or operator;
      (B) by the transfer of negotiable warehouse receipts; or
      (C) by such other method, including the sale of the commodity in commercial markets, as is determined by the Secretary to be appropriate to enable the owner or operator to receive efficient and expeditious possession of the commodity.
    (3) Cash payments
      (A) Commodity Credit Corporation stocks
         If stocks of a commodity acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation are not readily available to make full payment in kind to the owner or operator, the Secretary may substitute full or partial payment in cash for payment in kind.
      (B) Special conservation reserve enhancement program
         Payments to an owner or operator under a special conservation reserve enhancement program described in subsection (f)(4) of this section shall be in the form of cash only.
  (e) Payments on death, disability, or succession
     If an owner or operator that is entitled to a payment under a contract entered into under this subpart dies, becomes incompetent, is otherwise unable to receive the payment, or is succeeded by another person that renders or completes the required performance, the Secretary shall make the payment, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary and without regard to any other provision of law, in such manner as the Secretary determines is fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances.
  (f) Payment limitation for rental payments
    (1) In general
       The total amount of rental payments, including rental payments made in the form of in-kind commodities, received by a person or legal entity, directly or indirectly, under this subpart for any fiscal year may not exceed $50,000.
    (2) Repealed. Pub. L. 110–234, title II, § 2110(c)(2), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1035, and Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a), title II, § 2110(c)(2), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1763
    (3) Other payments
       Rental payments received by an owner or operator shall be in addition to, and not affect, the total amount of payments that the owner or operator is otherwise eligible to receive under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002.
    (4) Special conservation reserve enhancement program
      (A) In general
         The provisions of this subsection that limit payments to any person or legal entity, and section 1305(d) of the Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 1308 note; Public Law 100–203), shall not be applicable to payments received by a State, political subdivision, or agency thereof in connection with agreements entered into under a special conservation reserve enhancement program carried out by that entity that has been approved by the Secretary.
      (B) Agreements
         The Secretary may enter into such agreements for payments to States (including political subdivisions and agencies of States) that the Secretary determines will advance the purposes of this subpart.
  (g) Other State or local assistance
     In addition to any payment under this subpart, an owner or operator may receive cost share assistance, rental payments, or tax benefits from a State or subdivision thereof for enrolling land in the conservation reserve program.
