  (a) Time of payment
     The Secretary shall provide payment for obligations incurred by the Secretary under this subpart–
    (1) with respect to any cost sharing obligation as soon as possible after the obligation is incurred; and
    (2) with respect to any annual easement payment obligation incurred by the Secretary as soon as possible after October 1 of each calendar year.
  (b) Payments to others
     If an owner who is entitled to a payment under this subpart dies, becomes incompetent, is otherwise unable to receive such payment, or is succeeded by another person who renders or completes the required performance, the Secretary shall make such payment, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary and without regard to any other provision of law, in such manner as the Secretary determines is fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances.
  (c) Payment limitation
    (1) In general
       The total amount of easement payments made to a person under this subpart for any year may not exceed $50,000, except such limitation shall not apply with respect to payments for perpetual or 30-year easements.
    (2) Regulations
       The Secretary shall issue regulations prescribing such rules as the Secretary determines necessary to ensure a fair and reasonable application of the limitation contained in this subsection.
    (3) Other payments
       Easement payments received by an owner shall be in addition to, and not affect, the total amount of payments that such owner is otherwise eligible to receive under this Act, the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, or the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.).
    (4) State wetland and environmental enhancement
       The provisions of this subsection that limit payments to any person, and section 1305(d) of the Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 1308 note), shall not be applicable to payments received by a State, political subdivision, or agency thereof in connection with agreements entered into under a special wetland and environmental easement enhancement program carried out by that entity that has been approved by the Secretary. The Secretary may enter into such agreements for payments to States, political subdivisions, or agencies thereof that the Secretary determines will advance the purposes of this subpart.
  (d) Exemption from automatic sequester
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no order issued under section 902 of title 2 shall affect any payment under this subpart.
