  (a) Time of payment
     The Secretary shall provide payment for obligations incurred by the Secretary under this part–
    (1) with respect to any cost sharing obligation as soon as possible after the obligation is incurred; and
    (2) with respect to any annual easement payment obligation incurred by the Secretary as soon as possible after October 1 of each calendar year.
  (b) Cost sharing payments
     In making cost sharing payments to owners under this part, the Secretary may pay up to 100 percent of the cost of establishing conservation measures and practices pursuant to this part.
  (c) Easement payments; acceptability of offers
    (1) Determination of amount
       The Secretary shall determine the amount payable to owners in the form of easement payments under this part, and in making such determination may consider, among other things, the amount necessary to encourage owners to participate in the easement program.
    (2) Acceptability of offers
       In determining the acceptability of easement offers, the Secretary may take into consideration–
      (A) the extent to which the purposes of the easement program would be achieved on the land;
      (B) the productivity of the land; and
      (C) the on-farm and off-farm environmental threats if the land is used for the production of agricultural commodities.
  (d) Form of payment
     Except as otherwise provided in this section, payments under this part–
    (1) shall be made in cash in such amount and at such time as is agreed on and specified in the easement or related agreement; and
    (2) may be made in advance of a determination of performance.
  (e) Payments to others
     If an owner who is entitled to a payment under this part dies, becomes incompetent, is otherwise unable to receive such payment, or is succeeded by another person who renders or completes the required performance, the Secretary shall make such payment, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary and without regard to any other provision of law, in such manner as the Secretary determines is fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances.
  (f) Payment limitation
    (1) In general
       The total amount of easement payments made to a person under this part for any year may not exceed $50,000.
    (2) Regulations
       The Secretary shall issue regulations prescribing such rules as the Secretary determines necessary to ensure a fair and reasonable application of the limitation contained in this subsection.
    (3) Other payments
       Easement payments received by an owner shall be in addition to, and not affect, the total amount of payments that such owner is otherwise eligible to receive under this Act, the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, or the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.).
    (4) State environmental enhancement
       The provisions of this subsection that limit payments to any person, and section 1305(d) of the Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 1308 note), shall not be applicable to payments received by a State, political subdivision, or agency thereof in connection with agreements entered into under an environmental easement enhancement program carried out by that entity that has been approved by the Secretary. The Secretary may enter into such agreements for payments to States, political subdivisions, or agencies thereof that the Secretary determines will advance the purposes of this part.
  (g) Exemption from automatic sequester
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no order issued under section 902 of title 2 shall affect any payment under this part.
