  (a) In general
     Each Committee established under section 3861 of this title shall meet regularly to provide information, analysis, and recommendations to appropriate officials of the Department of Agriculture who are charged with implementing the conservation provisions of this chapter. Such information, analysis, and recommendations shall be provided in a manner that will assist the Department of Agriculture in determining matters of fact, technical merit, or scientific question. Data, analysis, and recommendations shall be provided in writing and shall reflect the best professional information and judgment of the Committee. The Secretary shall coordinate activities conducted under this section with those conducted under section 5831 of title 7. Each State technical committee shall provide public notice of, and permit public attendance at meetings considering, issues of concern related to carrying out this chapter.
  (b) Wetland and wildlife habitat protection guidelines
    (1) Development of technical guides
       Not later than one year after November 28, 1990, each State technical committee shall develop technical guides for the implementation of the wetland preservation and wildlife habitat improvement options of the agricultural water quality protection program under section 3838b \1\N of this title. Each State technical committee shall establish criteria and guidelines for evaluating petitions by agricultural producers regarding new conservation practices and systems not already described in field office technical guides.
    (2) Content of guides
      (A) In general
         The technical guides required under this subsection shall include detailed information on the selection of crops and crop-plant varieties, cover crops, rotation practices, tillage systems, nutrient management, biological control practices (including biologically intensive integrated pest management practices), soil, water, and natural resource conservation, and other practices useful in developing practices pursuant to such option.
      (B) Standards and instructions
         The technical guides required under subsection (a) of this section shall provide standards and practical instructions for implementation of wetland protection and wildlife habitat improvement practices based on existing scientific and technical knowledge.
      (C) Contracts
         The Secretary may enter into contracts to assist in the development and periodic revision of the technical guides described in this subsection.
  (c) Other duties
     Each technical committee shall provide assistance and offer recommendations with respect to the technical aspects of–
    (1) wetland protection, restoration, and mitigation requirements;
    (2) criteria to be used in evaluating bids for enrollment of environmentally-sensitive lands in the conservation reserve program;
    (3) guidelines for haying or grazing and the control of weeds to protect nesting wildlife on set-aside acreage;
    (4) highly erodible lands exemptions and appeals;
    (5) wetland and conservation compliance exemptions and appeals;
    (6) addressing common weed and pest problems and programs to control weeds and pests found on acreage enrolled in the conservation reserve program;
    (7) guidelines for planting perennial cover for water quality and wildlife habitat improvement on set-aside lands;
    (8) establishing criteria and priorities for State initiatives under the environmental quality incentives program under part IV of subchapter IV of this chapter; and
    (9) other matters determined appropriate by the Secretary.
  (d) Authority
     Each Committee established under section 3861 of this title is advisory and shall have no implementation or enforcement authority. However, the Secretary shall give strong consideration to the recommendations of such Committees in administering the programs under this chapter, and to the factual, technical, or scientific findings and recommendations under the Committee“s responsibility.
  (e) FACA requirements
     The committees established under section 3861 of this title shall be exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
