   The tracts of land on the island of Hawaii and on the island of Maui, in the Territory of Hawaii, hereinafter described, shall be perpetually dedicated and set apart as a public park or pleasure ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the people of the United States, to be known as Hawaii National Park. Said tracts of land are described as follows:
   First. All that tract of land comprising portion of the lands of Kapapala and Keauhou, in the District of Kau, and portions of the lands of Keaau, Kahaualea, Panaunui, and Apua, in the District of Puna, containing approximately thirty-four thousand five hundred and thirty-one acres, bounded as follows:
   Beginning at a point on the west edge of the Keamoku Aa Flow (lava flow of 1823), the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government Survey Trigonometry Station ””Uwekahuna““, being four thousand seven hundred and six and six-tenths feet south and seventeen thousand nine hundred and seventy and three-tenths feet west, and the true azimuth and distance from said point of beginning to Government Survey Trigonometry Station ””Ohaikea““, being one hundred and sixty-six degrees and twenty minutes, six thousand three hundred and fifty feet, and running by true azimuths–
   1. Along the west edge of the Keamoku Aa Flow in a northeasterly and northwesterly direction, the direct azimuth and distance being one hundred and ninety-eight degrees and ten minutes fourteen thousand seven hundred feet;
   2. Two hundred and fifty-six degrees, eleven thousand four hundred feet across the land of Kapapala and Keauhou to a marked point on the Humuula Trail;
   3. Three hundred and twenty-eight degrees and fifteen minutes eight thousand seven hundred and twenty-five feet across the land of Keauhou to the top of the fault north and the Kau Road;
   4. Thence along the fault in a northeasterly direction along the remainder of Keauhou to a pipe, the direct azimuth and distance being two hundred and fifty-one degrees and thirty minutes four thousand three hundred and thirty feet;
   5. Two hundred and eighty-six degrees five hundred and thirty feet along the remainder of Keauhou;
   6. Two hundred and ninety-eight degrees nine hundred and sixty feet along same;
   7. Two hundred and eighty-three degrees and forty-eight minutes one thousand one hundred and forty-six and five-tenths feet along same to a pipe;
   8. Two hundred and sixty-seven degrees and twenty minutes one thousand and twenty-seven and five-tenths feet along same;
   9. Two hundred and ninety-three degrees and ten minutes one thousand and fifty feet along same to a pipe;
   10. Three hundred and twenty-one degrees and forty-six minutes one thousand one hundred and eleven and three-tenths feet along same;
   11. Three hundred and thirty-three degrees and fifty minutes one thousand one hundred feet along same;
   12. Three hundred and twenty-seven degrees and twenty minutes one thousand nine hundred and forty feet along same;
   13. Two hundred and eighty-three degrees and thirty-nine minutes two thousand and fifty-seven and four-tenths feet along same to a pipe;
   14. Three hundred and thirty-three degrees and twenty minutes two hundred and fifty feet along same to a pipe on the north side of Government Main Road at junction with the Keauhou Road, said pipe being by true azimuth and distance two hundred and ninety-five degrees and twelve minutes six thousand one hundred and sixty-seven and one-tenth feet from Government Survey Trigonometry Station ””Volcano House Flag““;
   15. Three hundred and thirty-three degrees and twenty minutes three thousand two hundred and eighty-three and two-tenths feet along the remainder of Keauhou to a pipe;
   16. Three hundred and fifty-four degrees and fifty-four minutes sixty feet along the remainder of Keaau;
   17. Two hundred and thirty-one degrees and thirty-one minutes one thousand six hundred and seventy-eight and eight-tenths feet along same;
   18. Three hundred and eighteen degrees eight hundred and sixteen and four-tenths feet along same to the boundary between the lands of Keaau and Kahaualea;
   19. Seventy-two degrees and forty-five minutes one thousand two hundred and thirty-three and three-tenths feet along the land of Kahaualea to a pipe;
   20. Forty-eight degrees six hundred and thirty-four feet along the remainder of Kahaualea to a pipe on the Kahaualea-Keauhou boundary;
   21. Three hundred and thirty-two degrees and ten minutes six thousand five hundred and fifty-one and four-tenths feet along the Kahaualea-Keaau boundary to a pipe;
   22. Two hundred and eighty-one degrees thirty thousand three hundred and one and seven-tenths feet along the remainder of Kahaualea to a pipe;
   23. Thirty-one degrees and thirty minutes thirteen thousand and seventy-four and seven-tenths feet along the remainder of Kahaualea and Panaunui to a pipe, passing over a pipe at five thousand nine hundred and twenty-two and two-tenths feet on the Kahaualea-Panaunui boundary;
   24. Eighty-nine degrees and ten minutes thirty-two thousand nine hundred feet along the remainder of Panaunui, across the lands of Apua and Keauhou to ””Palilele-o-Kalihipaa““, at an angle in the Keauhou-Kapapala boundary marked by a pile of stones, passing over pipes at three thousand five hundred and seventy-two and eight-tenths feet on the Panaunui-Apua boundary and eight thousand four hundred and thirty-five and three-tenths feet;
   25. Fifty-one degrees fifty minutes and thirty seconds five thousand four hundred and thirty feet across the land of Kapapala;
   26. One hundred and two degrees and fifty minutes nineteen thousand one hundred and fifty feet across same to a small cone about one thousand five hundred feet southwest of ””Puu Koae““;
   27. One hundred and sixty-six degrees and twenty minutes twenty-one thousand feet across the land of Kapapala to the point of beginning; and all of those lands lying within the boundary above described are included in and made a part of the Hawaii National Park subject to all laws and regulations pertaining to said park.
   Second. All that tract of land comprising portions of the lands of Kapapala and Kahuku, in the district of Kau, island of Hawaii; Keauhou second, in the district of North Kona; and Kaohe, in the district of Hamakua, containing seventeen thousand nine hundred and twenty acres, bounded as follows: Beginning at Pohaku Hanalei of Humuula, a small cone on the brow of Mauna Loa, and at the common boundary points of the lands of Humuula, Kapapala, and Kaohe, from which the true azimuth and distance to Government survey trigonometrical station Omaokoili is one hundred and ninety-five degrees twelve minutes eighteen seconds, seventy-eight thousand two hundred and eighty-six feet, and running by true azimuths: First, two hundred and ninety-eight degrees, five thousand two hundred and forty feet; second, twenty-eight degrees, thirty-six thousand nine hundred and sixty feet; third, one hundred and eighteen degrees, twenty-one thousand one hundred and twenty feet; fourth, two hundred and eight degrees, thirty-six thousand nine hundred and sixty feet; fifth, two hundred and ninety-eight degrees, fifteen thousand eight hundred and eighty feet, to the point of beginning.
   Third. A strip of land of sufficient width for a road to connect the two tracts of land on the island of Hawaii above described, the width and location of which strip shall be determined by the Secretary of the Interior.
   Fourth. All that tract of land comprising portions of the lands of Honuaula and Kula, in the district of Makawao, and Kipahulu, Kaupo, and Kahikinui, in the district of Hana, on the island of Maui, containing approximately twenty-one thousand one hundred and fifty acres, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point called Kolekole, on the summit near the most western point of the rim of the crater of Haleakala, and running by approximate azimuths and distances: First, hundred and ninety-three degrees forty-five minutes, nineteen thousand three hundred and fifty feet along the west slope of the crater of Haleakala to a point called Puu-o-Ili; second, two hundred and sixty-eight degrees, twenty-three thousand feet up the western slope and across Koolau Gap to the point where the southwest boundary of Koolau Forest Reserve crosses the east rim of Koolau Gap; third, three hundred and six degrees thirty minutes, seventeen thousand one hundred and fifty feet along the southwest boundary of Koolau Forest Reserve to a point called Palalia, on the east rim of the crater of Haleakala; fourth, along the east rim of the crater of Haleakala, the direct azimuth and distance being three hundred and fifty-four degrees fifteen minutes, eighteen thousand three hundred feet, to a point on the east rim of Kaupo Gap, shown on Hawaiian Government survey maps at an elevation of four thousand two hundred and eight feet; fifth, eighty-eight degrees forty-five minutes, three thousand three hundred feet, across Kaupo Gap to a point called Kaumikaohu, on the boundary line between the lands of Kipahulu and Kahikinui; sixth, one hundred and two degrees and thirty minutes, forty thousand seven hundred and fifty feet, along the south slope of the crater of Haleakala to the point of beginning.
   Fifth. All that tract of land comprising a portion of the Kau Desert, Kapapala, in the district of Kau, on the island of Hawaii, containing forty-three thousand four hundred acres, more or less, bounded as follows: Beginning at a galvanized-iron nail driven into the pahoehoe at the northeast corner of this tract of land, at a place called Palilele-o-Kalihipaa, and on the boundary between the lands of Kapapala and Keauhou, the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government survey trigonometrical station Uwekahuna, being twenty-six thousand and ten and four-tenths feet south and nine thousand nine hundred and thirty-two and four tenths feet east, as shown on Government survey registered map numbered two thousand three hundred and eighty-eight and running by true azimuths: First, three hundred and fifty degrees forty-three minutes, thirty thousand and twenty-three feet, along the land of Kapapala to a point at seacoast; second, thence in a west and southwesterly direction along the seacoast to a station on a large flat stone, at a place called Na-Puu-o-na-Elemakule, at the seacoast boundary point of the lands of Kapapala and Kaalaala, the direct azimuth and distance being sixty-nine degrees thirty-four minutes thirty seconds, thirty-two thousand and forty-three feet; third, eighty-nine degrees twenty-seven minutes thirty seconds, thirty thousand six hundred and ninety feet, along the land of Kaalaala to the main 1868 lava crack, said point being by true azimuth and distance two hundred and ninety-six degrees twenty-seven minutes thirty seconds, twenty-one hundred feet from Government survey trigonometrical station Puu Nahala; fourth, thence up along the main 1868 lava crack, along the Kapapala pastoral lands to a small outbreak of lava from the 1868 lava crack, opposite the Halfway House, the direct azimuth and distance being one hundred and ninety-eight degrees, thirty-two thousand five hundred and fifty feet; fifth, two hundred and thirty degrees twenty-five minutes, twenty-seven thousand six hundred and fifteen feet, along the Kapapala pastoral lands to the west boundary of the Kilauea section, Hawaii National Park; sixth, three hundred and forty-six degrees twenty minutes, six thousand seven hundred and forty-two feet, along said west boundary to a small cone; seventh, two hundred and eighty-two degrees fifty minutes, nineteen thousand one hundred and fifty feet, along the south boundary of said Kilauea section, Hawaii National Park; eighth, two hundred and thirty-one degrees fifty minutes thirty seconds, five thousand four hundred and thirty feet, along said south boundary to the point of beginning. The Federal Power Act [16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.] shall not apply to or extend over lands defined in subdivision 5.
