   The boundary of the Hawaii National Park on the island of Maui is changed to read as follows:
   Beginning at a triangle on set stone, said mark being the Government survey triangulation station Puu Nianiau in the land of Kalialinui, and running by true azimuths:
   1. Three hundred degress fifty-seven minutes thirty seconds eleven thousand seven hundred and sixty-nine and three-tenths feet along the remaining portion of the land of Kalialinui to a concrete monument marked Number 1 on spur and on the west edge of Koolau Gap.
   2. Two hundred and ninety-seven degrees forty-seven minutes thirty seconds fourteen thousand six hundred and fifty-two and six-tenths feet along same and across Koolau Gap to a concrete monument marked Number 3, the true azimuth and distance from said monument to Government survey triangulation station Hanakauhi being forty-five degrees fourteen minutes nine hundred and eighty-eight feet.
   3. Two hundred and sixty-nine degrees fifty-seven minutes thirty seconds nine thousand and one and three-tenths feet along same to a concrete monument marked Number 7 on the southwest boundary of the land of Haiku.
   4. Three hundred and six degrees thirty-nine minutes three thousand nine hundred and thirteen and four-tenths feet along the southwest boundary of the land of Haiku to a cross on large flat rock called Pohaku Palaha.
   5. Two hundred and seventy-three degrees seven minutes four hundred and forty feet along the Nahiku tract to Government survey triangulation station Pakihi.
   6. Thence following along summit of dividing ridge between Haleakala crater and Kipahulu Valley to an ahu at a place called Pakihi, the direct azimuth and distance being three hundred and fifty degrees four minutes thirty seconds seven thousand four hundred and fourteen and seven-tenths feet.
   7. Thence along Government land and following along rim of the crater and crest of wall of Kaupo Gap to a four inch by four inch redwood post, the direct azimuth and distance being three hundred and fifty-six degrees forty-one minutes ten thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven and nine-tenths feet.
   8. Eighty-six degrees one minute thirty seconds six thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven and four-tenths feet along grant 3457, lot 1, to A. V. Marciel, and the remaining portion of the land of Nuu (R. P. 8049, L. C. A. 6239 Apana 2 to Kalaimoku), passing over a cross on stone at Kauhaokamoa at three thousand four hundred and forty-one and eight-tenths feet and passing over an iron pipe on the west edge of the Koolau Gap at five thousand eight hundred and seventy-four feet.
   9. One hundred and thirty-eight degrees forty-two minutes thirty seconds nine thousand five hundred and seventy-four and two-tenths feet along the remaining portion of said land of Nuu to a cross on rock, the true azimuth and distance to Government survey triangulation station Haleakala 2 being one hundred and seventy-nine degrees thirteen minutes fifteen seconds nine hundred and forty-three and two-tenths feet.
   10. Ninety-one degrees thirty-four minutes forty-five seconds nine thousand nine hundred and sixty and four-tenths feet along same to a concrete monument marked Number 14, the true azimuth and distance from said monument to an arrow on rock called Kumuiliahi, marking the northeast corner of the land of Nakula, being one hundred and sixty-seven degrees twenty-eight minutes nine hundred and twenty-eight and seven-tenths feet.
   11. Ninety degrees twenty-three minutes thirty seconds twelve thousand two hundred and forty-nine and three-tenths feet along the remaining portion of the lands of Nakula and Kahikinui to a concrete monument marked Number 15.
   12. One hundred and seventeen degrees fifty-two minutes thirty seconds five thousand two hundred and nine and two-tenths feet along the remaining portion of the land of Kahikinui to a concrete monument marked Number 16, the true azimuth and distance from said monument to Government survey triangulation station Kolekole, being ninety-eight degrees thirty minutes one thousand five hundred and forty-three and five-tenths feet.
   13. One hundred and twenty-seven degrees thirty-eight minutes two thousand one hundred and seventy-five and six-tenths feet along same and the land of Papaanui to a concrete monument marked Number 17, the true azimuth and distance from said monument to a concrete monument marked Number 25, which marks the south corner of the land of Kealahou 3 and 4 being forty degrees ten minutes thirty seconds four hundred and sixty-six and two-tenths feet.
   14. Two hundred and thirteen degrees forty-six minutes eight thousand two hundred and forty-one and two-tenths feet along the remaining portions of the lands of Kealahou 3 and 4 and Pulehunui to a concrete monument marked Number 19, the true azimuth and distance from said monument to a ””K““ marked on a large lava rock called Kilohana, at the east corner of the lands of Kealahou 3 and 4, being three hundred and twenty-three degrees fifty-three minutes nine hundred and forty-seven and three-tenths feet.
   15. One hundred and forty-three degrees fifty-three minutes six thousand nine hundred and five and three-tenths feet along the land of Pulehunui to a concrete monument marked Number 20.
   16. One hundred and ninety-nine degrees twenty-three minutes ten thousand seven hundred and twenty-six feet along the remaining portion of the land of Kalialinui to the point of beginning, passing over a concrete monument marked Number 22 at a distance of six thousand four hundred thirty-six and seven-tenths feet; including portions of the lands of Kealahou 3 and 4, Pulehunui, Kalialinui, Kaupo, Nuu, Nakula, Kahikinui and Papaanui, Island of Maui, and containing seventeen thousand one hundred and thirty acres, more or less; and all of those lands lying within the boundary above described are included in and made a part of the Hawaii National Park subject to all laws and regulations pertaining to said park.
