   When title to all or any of the following-described lands on the island of Hawaii, in the Territory of Hawaii, shall be vested in the United States, such lands shall be, and the same are, added to and made a part of the Hawaii National Park:
   Kalapana extension (being portions of the lands of Kahaualea, Panaunui, and Apua and all of the lands of Poupou, Pulama, Kamoamoa, Laeapuki, Panauiki, Kealakomo, and Kahue, in the district of Puna, and portion of the land of Keauhou, in the district of Kau): Beginning at the United States National Ocean Survey triangulation station Kupapau (marked by a survey tablet set in large rock), the true azimuth and distance from said point of beginning to the United States National Ocean Survey triangulation station Hakuma (marked by a United States National Ocean Survey tablet set in smooth lava outcrop and surrounded by a circular patch of cement near edge of sea pali) being two hundred and forty-four degrees forty minutes and fifty seconds exactly fourteen thousand four hundred and thirteen feet and running as follows, all azimuths being measured clockwise from true south (note azimuths of courses 1 to 4, inclusive, are referred to Hakuma meridian):
   Along the seacoast at high-water mark, in a general southwesterly direction for the first five courses, the true azimuths and distances between points on said seacoast being–
   1. Exactly sixty-six degrees and fifteen minutes twenty-six thousand three hundred and thirty-six and six-tenths feet to United States National Ocean Survey station Laeapuki, marked by a survey tablet set in mound and covered by a small cairn;
   2. Exactly sixty degrees and ten minutes eighteen thousand seven hundred feet to Kaena Point;
   3. Exactly seventy-one degrees and fifty-six minutes, twenty-one thousand three hundred and fifty feet to Apua Point;
   4. Exactly ninety-eight degrees and forty-five minutes seven thousand four hundred feet to a pipe in concrete at a place called Okiokiahu (note: azimuths of courses 5 to 11, inclusive, are referred to Uwekahuna meridian);
   5. One hundred and nine degrees fifty-seven minutes and twenty-two seconds ten thousand seven hundred and seventeen and nine-tenths feet to a pipe in concrete at a place called Makaloa; thence
   6. One hundred and seventy degrees four minutes and thirty-nine seconds exactly six thousand eight hundred feet along Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section, to the foot of the Puueo pali;
   7. Two hundred and forty-three degrees five minutes and thirty seconds exactly one thousand nine hundred and seventy-three feet along the foot of Puueo pali along portion of the land of Keauhou;
   8. Exactly two hundred and eighty-six degrees fifty minutes exactly nine thousand seven hundred feet along portion of the land of Keauhou;
   9. One hundred and seventy-eight degrees thirty-eight minutes and twenty-five seconds exactly twelve thousand five hundred feet along portion of the land of Keauhou to a pipe in concrete at top of the Poliokeawe pali;
   10. One hundred and sixty-six degrees twenty-two minutes and twenty-four seconds twelve thousand four hundred and sixty-seven and nine-tenths feet along portion of the land of Keauhou to a pipe in concrete on the south boundary of Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section;
   11. Exactly two hundred and sixty-nine degrees and ten minutes twenty-one thousand one hundred forty-six and five-tenths feet along Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section, to a pipe (note: azimuths of courses 12 and 13 are referred to Puu Huluhulu meridian):
   12. Exactly two hundred and eleven degrees and thirty minutes thirteen thousand seventy-four and seven-tenths feet along Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section, to a pipe;
   13. Exactly two hundred and eighty-one degrees exactly two thousand nine hundred and thirty-one feet along portion of the land of Kahaualea (note: azimuths of courses 14 to 24, inclusive, are referred to Hakuma meridian);
   14. Exactly two hundred and twelve degrees and thirty minutes exactly eight thousand and fifteen feet along the land of Kahaualea;
   15. Exactly two hundred and ninety-seven degrees and fifteen minutes exactly twenty-four thousand five hundred and fifty-two feet along the land of Kahaualea;
   16. Exactly two hundred and forty-five degrees and fifty-eight minutes exactly six thousand one hundred and sixty-eight feet along the land of Kahaualea;
   17. Exactly three hundred and twenty-six degrees and thirty-one minutes exactly five thousand two hundred and forty-eight feet along the land of Kahaualea;
   18. Exactly three hundred and fifty-nine degrees and fifteen minutes exactly four hundred and forty-five feet along the land of Kahaualea;
   19. Exactly three hundred and twenty-nine degrees exactly two thousand two hundred and eleven feet along the land of Kahaualea;
   20. Two hundred and thirty-four degrees thirty-nine minutes and forty seconds exactly three thousand two hundred and eighty-three feet across portion of the land of Kahaualea;
   21. Exactly three hundred and thirty-eight degrees and twelve minutes three thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven and five-tenths feet along the land of Kapaahu;
   22. Exactly three hundred and thirty-four degrees and thirty minutes exactly one thousand seven hundred and eighty feet along the land of Kapaahu to the south corner of grant 3208 to West Kaloi;
   23. Exactly three hundred and thirty-one degrees and thirty minutes five thousand and ninety-seven and eight-tenths feet along the land of Kapaahu to a point near seacoast; thence
   24. To and along the seacoast at high-water mark to the point of beginning, the true azimuth and distance being: Exactly fifty-three degrees and eighteen minutes three thousand three hundred and sixty-four feet.
   Area, forty-nine thousand three hundred and forty acres.
   Footprint extension: Beginning at the northeast corner of this tract of land, at a point on the west edge of the Keamoku Aa Flow (lava flow of 1823), and on the westerly boundary of Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section, as described in Governor“s Executive Order 86, the coordinates of said point of beginning referred to Government survey triangulation station Uwekahuna, being four thousand seven hundred and six and six-tenths feet south and seventeen thousand nine hundred and seventy and three-tenths feet west, and the true azimuth and distance from said point of beginning to Government survey triangulation station Ohaikea being one hundred and sixty-six degrees and twenty minutes exactly six thousand three hundred and fifty feet, as shown on Government survey registered map 2388, and running by azimuths measured clockwise from true south–
   1. Three hundred and forty-six degrees and twenty minutes exactly fourteen thousand two hundred and fifty-eight feet along Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section, as described in Governor“s Executive Order 86;
   2. Fifty degrees and twenty-five minutes exactly twenty-seven thousand six hundred and fifteen feet along Hawaii National Park, Kilauea section, as described in Governor“s Executive Order 81, thence along the remainder of the Government land of Kapapala to the point of beginning as follows:
   3. One hundred and ninety-one degrees no minutes and twenty seconds thirteen thousand five hundred and forty-four and five-tenths feet to a pipe at fence corner a little southwest of the old halfway house and about twenty feet southeast of the edge of the Government main road;
   4. Two hundred and thirty-four degrees and twenty-five minutes one thousand three hundred and seventy-seven and five-tenths feet to a pipe on a mound of pahoehoe about ninety feet southeast of the Government main road;
   5. Two hundred and twenty degrees and forty minutes exactly one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven feet crossing the Government main road to a spike in large boulder in stone wall about one hundred and twenty-five feet north of the Government main road; thence
   6. Along stone wall over the lava flows, the boundary following the wall in its turns and windings, the direct azimuth and distance being: two hundred and nineteen degrees twenty-two minutes and forty-five seconds exactly eighteen thousand one hundred and twenty-one feet to a point in said stone wall.
   7. Two hundred and thirty-eight degrees and seven minutes exactly two hundred and fifty feet partly along stone wall to a pipe in the middle of a corral;
   8. Two hundred and thirty-four degrees and two minutes exactly two hundred feet across corral and along stone wall to a point in said wall;
   9. Two hundred and thirty-nine degrees and thirty minutes exactly three hundred and fifteen feet along stone wall to a pipe at end of wall and on the south side of the old Peter Lee Road;
   10. One hundred and eighty-five degrees and thirty minutes exactly three hundred and eighty feet crossing old Peter Lee Road and along fence to a pipe at fence corner on the west bank of a ravine; thence
   11. Following along the west bank of ravine, the direct azimuth and distance being: two hundred and three degrees and twenty-three minutes four hundred seventy-five and seven-tenths feet to a pipe on the west bank of the ravine;
   12. Two hundred and twenty degrees and fifty-four minutes exactly two hundred and forty-five feet across ravine and along fence to a spike in stone pile;
   13. Two hundred and twelve degrees and forty-four minutes exactly two hundred feet along fence to a spike in stone pile;
   14. Two hundred and twenty-two degrees and fifty-three minutes exactly two hundred and forty feet along fence to a spike in stone pile;
   15. Two hundred and twenty-five degrees and forty-six minutes three hundred and forty and six-tenths feet to the point of beginning and containing an area of five thousand seven hundred and thirty acres, more or less; and, in addition, any lands adjacent or contiguous to the Hawaii National Park as extended which, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, are necessary for the proper rounding out of the boundaries of the park. Land (including the land depicted on the map entitled ””NPS–PAC 1997HW““) may be acquired by the Secretary through donation, exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated funds.
