  (a) Acquisition of land
     Notwithstanding any other provision of sections 391b, 391b–1, 392b, 396, and 396a of this title, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ””Secretary““) is authorized to acquire by donation or exchange the land and interests therein comprising approximately 5,650 acres and identified as tract number 118/22 on the map entitled ””Recommended Land Acquisition““, in the Hawaig131”Ki Volcanoes National Park Land Protection Plan as recommended May 17, 1985, which plan shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director, National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. and the Office of the Superintendent, Hawaig131”Ki Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii.
  (b) Exchange of land; equalization payments
     In exercising his authority to acquire the real property referred to in subsection (a) of this section by exchange, the Secretary may accept title thereto and in exchange therefor he may convey to the grantor of such real property title to any United States Government real property under his administrative jurisdiction, other than real property within or administered as a part of the National Park System, in the State of Hawaii which he determines is suitable for such exchange. The values of the properties exchanged shall be approximately equal, or if they are not approximately equal, the values shall be equalized by the payment of money to the grantor or to the Secretary as the circumstances require. In no circumstance shall an equalization payment exceed one fourth (25 percent) the appraised value of the real property referred to in subsection (a) of this section. Any money paid to the Secretary shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States.
  (c) State owned land; acquisition only by donation or exchange
     Real property owned by the State of Hawaii or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation or exchange.
  (d) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction over surplus federally owned real property in Hawaii to facilitate exchange; exchange of land with State of Hawaii, consultation, limitation
    (1) In order to facilitate the acquisition of the real property referred to in subsection (a) of this section by exchange, notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon request of the Secretary, the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to the Secretary, without reimbursement, administrative jurisdiction over any excess or surplus United States Government real property in the State of Hawaii for purposes of such an exchange.
    (2) For the purposes of a land exchange with the State of Hawaii, the Secretary shall consult with the State of Hawaii in the process of identifying suitable exchange lands belonging to the United States Government.
    (3) For the purposes of a land exchange with the State of Hawaii, real property owned by the United States Government and selected for use in a land exchange shall not be from among those lands ceded to the United States Government.
  (e) Administration of land acquired
     The real property acquired by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be administered by the Secretary as part of Hawaig131”Ki Volcanoes National Park, subject to the laws and regulations applicable to the Park.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
     There is hereby authorized to be appropriated up to $700,000 to carry out the purpose of this section.
