  (a) In general
    (1) In order to provide a center for the preservation, interpretation, and perpetuation of traditional native Hawaiian activities and culture, and to demonstrate historic land use patterns as well as to provide a needed resource for the education, enjoyment, and appreciation of such traditional native Hawaiian activities and culture by local residents and visitors, there is established the Kaloko-Honokoˉhau National Historical Park (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””park““) in Hawaii comprising approximately one thousand three hundred acres as generally depicted on the map entitled ””Kaloko-Honokoˉhau National Historical Park,““ numbered KHN–80,000, and dated May 1978.
    (2) The boundaries of the park are modified to include lands and interests therein comprised of Parcels 1 and 2 totaling 2.14 acres, identified as ””Tract A““ on the map entitled ””Kaloko-Honokoˉhau National Historical Park Proposed Boundary Adjustment““, numbered PWR (PISO) 466/82,043 and dated April 2002.
    (3) The maps referred to in this subsection shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
  (b) Land acquisition; manner
     Except for any lands owned by the State of Hawaii or its subdivisions, which may be acquired only by donation, the Secretary is authorized to acquire the lands described above by donation, exchange, or purchase through the use of donated or appropriated funds, notwithstanding any prior restriction of law.
  (c) Administration; applicable provisions
     The Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with this section and the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the national park system, including sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 461 to 467 of this title, and generally in accordance with the guidelines provided in the study report entitled ””Kaloko-Honokoˉhau““ prepared by the Honokohau Study Advisory Commission and the National Park Service, May 1974, GPO 690–514.
  (d) Activities and agreements; native accommodations; cooperative marine management agreement; fishing, shoreline food gathering and small boat harbor activities: regulation; land and water management agreements
    (1) In administering the park the Secretary may provide traditional native Hawaiian accommodations.
    (2) The Secretary shall consult with and may enter into a cooperative management agreement with the State of Hawaii for the management of the submerged lands within the authorized park boundary, following the marine management policies of the State of Hawaii.
    (3) Commercial, recreational, and subsistence fishing and shoreline food gathering activities as well as access to and from the Honokohau small boat harbor by motor boats and other water craft shall be permitted wherever such activities are not inconsistent with the purposes for which the park is established, subject to regulation by the Secretary.
    (4) The Secretary shall consult with and may enter into agreements with other governmental entities and private landowners to establish adequate controls on air and water quality and the scenic and esthetic values of the surrounding land and water areas. In consulting with and entering into any such agreements, the Secretary shall to the maximum extent feasible utilize the traditional native Hawaiian Ahupua“s concept of land and water management.
  (e) Employment of native Hawaiians
     In carrying out the purposes of this section the Secretary is authorized and directed as appropriate to employ native Hawaiians. For the purposes of this section, native Hawaiians are defined as any lineal descendants of the race inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands prior to the year 1778.
  (f) Advisory Commission; establishment; membership; qualifications; term; Chairman; vacancies; compensation and expenses; ex officio members; duties; meetings; termination
    (1) There is hereby established the Na Hoa Pili O Kaloko-Honokoˉhau (The Friends of Kaloko-Honokoˉhau), an Advisory Commission for the park. The Commission shall be composed of nine members, appointed by the Secretary, at least five of whom shall be selected from nominations provided by native Hawaiian organizations. All members of the Commission shall be residents of the State of Hawaii, and at least six members shall be native Hawaiians. Members of the Commission shall be appointed for five-year terms except that initial appointment(s) shall consist of two members appointed for a term of five years, two for a term of four years, two for a term of three years, two for a term of two years, and one for a term of one year. No member may serve more than one term consecutively.
    (2) The Secretary shall designate one member of the Commission to be Chairman. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled by appointment for the remainder of the term.
    (3) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. The Secretary is authorized to pay the expenses reasonably incurred by the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under this section on vouchers signed by the Chairman.
    (4) The Superintendent of the park, the National Park Service State Director, Hawaii, a person appointed by the Governor of Hawaii, and a person appointed by the mayor of the county of Hawaii, shall serve as ex officio nonvoting members of the Commission.
    (5) The Commission shall advise the Director, National Park Service, with respect to the historical, archeological, cultural, and interpretive programs of the park. The Commission shall afford particular emphasis to the quality of traditional native Hawaiian culture demonstrated in the park.
    (6) The Commission shall meet not less than twice a year. Additional meetings may be called by the Chairman.
    (7) The Advisory Commission shall terminate on December 31, 2018.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
     There are hereby authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $25,000,000 for acquisition and $1,000,000 for development.
