  (a) In general
     In order to preserve and protect for the education, inspiration, and enjoyment of present and future generations an outstanding example of a near-virgin southern hardwood forest situated in the Congaree River floodplain in Richland County, South Carolina, there is established the Congaree National Park (hereinafter referred to as the ””park““). The park shall consist of the area within the boundary as generally depicted on the map entitled ””Congaree Swamp National Monument““, numbered CS–80, 001–B, and dated August 1976 (generally known as the Beidler Tract), which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Following reasonable notice in writing to the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives of his intention to do so, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ””Secretary““) may make minor revisions of the boundary of the park by publication of a revised map or other boundary description in the Federal Register.
  (b) Additional land
     In addition to the lands described in subsection (a), the park shall consist of the additional lands within the boundary as generally depicted on the map entitled ””Citizens Boundary Proposal for Congaree Swamp National Monument““, numbered 178–80,009A, dated July 1988, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The map may be revised as provided in subsection (a).
  (c) Acquisition of additional land
    (1) In general
       The Secretary may acquire by donation, by purchase from a willing seller with donated or appropriated funds, by transfer, or by exchange, land or an interest in land described in paragraph (2) for inclusion in the park.
    (2) Description of land
       The land referred to in paragraph (1) is the approximately 4,576 acres of land adjacent to the Park, as depicted on the map entitled ””Congaree National Park Boundary Map““, numbered 178/80015, and dated August 2003.
    (3) Availability of map
       The map referred to in paragraph (2) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (4) Boundary revision
       On acquisition of the land or an interest in land under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall revise the boundary of the park to reflect the acquisition.
    (5) Administration
       Any land acquired by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the park.
    (6) Effect
       Nothing in this section–
      (A) affects the use of private land adjacent to the park;
      (B) preempts the authority of the State with respect to the regulation of hunting, fishing, boating, and wildlife management on private land or water outside the boundaries of the park;
      (C) shall negatively affect the economic development of the areas surrounding the park; or
      (D) affects the classification of the park under section 7472 of title 42.
  (d) Acreage limitation
     The total acreage of the park shall not exceed 26,776 acres.
