  (a) Purposes
     The purposes of this section are–
    (1) to recognize and pay tribute to Thomas Alva Edison and his innovations; and
    (2) to preserve, protect, restore, and enhance the Edison National Historic Site to ensure public use and enjoyment of the Site as an educational, scientific, and cultural center.
  (b) Establishment
    (1) In general
       There is established the Thomas Edison National Historical Park as a unit of the National Park System (referred to in this section as the ””Historical Park““).
    (2) Boundaries
       The Historical Park shall be comprised of all property owned by the United States in the Edison National Historic Site as well as all property authorized to be acquired by the Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the ””Secretary““) for inclusion in the Edison National Historic Site before March 30, 2009, as generally depicted on the map entitled the ””Thomas Edison National Historical Park““, numbered 403/80,000, and dated April 2008.
    (3) Map
       The map of the Historical Park shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
  (c) Administration
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall administer the Historical Park in accordance with this section and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title.
    (2) Acquisition of property
      (A) Real property
         The Secretary may acquire land or interests in land within the boundaries of the Historical Park, from willing sellers only, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
      (B) Personal property
         The Secretary may acquire personal property associated with, and appropriate for, interpretation of the Historical Park.
    (3) Cooperative agreements
       The Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with interested entities and individuals to provide for the preservation, development, interpretation, and use of the Historical Park.
    (4) Omitted
    (5) References
       Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the ””Edison National Historic Site““ shall be deemed to be a reference to the ””Thomas Edison National Historical Park““.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
