  (a) Short title
     This section may be cited as the ””Moccasin Bend National Archeological District Act““.
  (b) Definitions
     As used in this section:
    (1) Secretary
       The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
    (2) Archeological district
       The term ””archeological district““ means the Moccasin Bend National Archeological District.
    (3) State
       The term ””State““ means the State of Tennessee.
    (4) Map
       The term ””Map““ means the map entitled, ””Boundary Map Moccasin Bend National Archeological District““, numbered 301/80098, and dated September 2002.
  (c) Establishment
    (1) In general
       In order to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of the public the nationally significant archeological and historic resources located on the peninsula known as Moccasin Bend, Tennessee, there is established as a unit of Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, the Moccasin Bend National Archeological District.
    (2) Boundaries
       The archeological district shall consist of approximately 780 acres generally depicted on the Map. The Map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
    (3) Acquisition of land and interests in land
      (A) In general
         The Secretary may acquire by donation, purchase from willing sellers using donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, lands and interests in lands within the exterior boundary of the archeological district. The Secretary may acquire the State, county and city-owned land and interests in land for inclusion in the archeological district only by donation.
      (B) Easement outside boundary
         To allow access between areas of the archeological district that on February 20, 2003, are noncontiguous, the Secretary may acquire by donation or purchase from willing owners using donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, easements connecting the areas generally depicted on the Map.
  (d) Administration
    (1) In general
       The archeological district shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with this section, with laws applicable to Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, and with the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System.
    (2) Cooperative agreement
       The Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with culturally affiliated federally recognized Indian tribes, governmental entities, and interested persons to provide for the restoration, preservation, development, interpretation, and use of the archeological district.
    (3) Visitor interpretive center
       For purposes of interpreting the historical themes and cultural resources of the archeological district, the Secretary may establish and administer a visitor center in the archeological district.
    (4) General management plan
       Not later than 3 years after funds are made available under this section, the Secretary shall develop a general management plan for the archeological district. The general management plan shall describe the appropriate protection and preservation of natural, cultural, and scenic resources, visitor use, and facility development within the archeological district consistent with the purposes of this section, while ensuring continued access by private landowners to their property.
