  (a) Establishment; boundaries
     There is established as a unit of the national park system in the Commonwealth of Virginia the Manassas National Battlefield Park, which shall contain within its boundaries the important historical lands relating to the two battles of Manassas. The total area of the park shall not be greater than four thousand five hundred and twenty-five acres. The boundaries of the park shall be the boundaries depicted on the map entitled ””Boundary Map, Manassas National Battlefield Park““, dated October 1980, and numbered 379/80,009, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register, as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, but no later than one year from the effective date of this section, a detailed description and map of the boundaries. Notwithstanding section 460T3lK–9(c) of this title, the Secretary may not make any changes in the boundaries of the park. The Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the national park system.
  (b) Addition to park
    (1) In addition to subsection (a) of this section, the boundaries of the park shall include the area, comprising approximately 600 acres, which is south of U.S. Route 29, north of Interstate Route 66, east of Route 705, and west of Route 622. Such area shall hereafter in sections 429b to 429b–5 of this title be referred to as the ””Addition““.
    (2)      (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective on November 10, 1988, there is hereby vested in the United States all right, title, and interest in and to, and the right to immediate possession of, all the real property within the Addition.
      (B) The United States shall pay just compensation to the owners of any property taken pursuant to this paragraph and the full faith and credit of the United States is hereby pledged to the payment of any judgment entered against the United States with respect to the taking of such property. Payment shall be in the amount of the agreed negotiated value of such property or the valuation of such property awarded by judgment and shall be made from the permanent judgment appropriation established pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1304. Such payment shall include interest on the value of such property which shall be compounded quarterly and computed at the rate applicable for the period involved, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities from November 10, 1988, to the last day of the month preceding the date on which payment is made.
      (C) In the absence of a negotiated settlement, or an action by the owner, within 1 year after November 10, 1988, the Secretary may initiate a proceeding at anytime seeking in a court of competent jurisdiction a determination of just compensation with respect to the taking of such property.
    (3) Not later than 6 months after November 10, 1988, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a detailed description and map depicting the boundaries of the Addition. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
  (c) Use of addition
     The Secretary shall not allow any unauthorized use of the Addition after November 10, 1988, except that the Secretary may permit the orderly termination of all operations on the Addition and the removal of equipment, facilities, and personal property from the Addition.
