  (a) Establishment
    (1) In general
       If Monroe County or Wayne County, Michigan, or other willing landowners in either County offer to donate to the United States land relating to the Battles of the River Raisin on January 18 and 22, 1813, or the aftermath of the battles, the Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the ””Secretary““) shall accept the donated land.
    (2) Designation of Park
       On the acquisition of land under paragraph (1) that is of sufficient acreage to permit efficient administration, the Secretary shall designate the acquired land as a unit of the National Park System, to be known as the ””River Raisin National Battlefield Park““ (referred to in this section as the ””Park““).
    (3) Legal description
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall prepare a legal description of the land and interests in land designated as the Park by paragraph (2).
      (B) Availability of map and legal description
         A map with the legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
  (b) Administration
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall manage the Park for the purpose of preserving and interpreting the Battles of the River Raisin in accordance with sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title.
    (2) General management plan
      (A) In general
         Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are made available, the Secretary shall complete a general management plan for the Park that, among other things, defines the role and responsibility of the Secretary with regard to the interpretation and the preservation of the site.
      (B) Consultation
         The Secretary shall consult with and solicit advice and recommendations from State, county, local, and civic organizations and leaders, and other interested parties in the preparation of the management plan.
      (C) Inclusions
         The plan shall include–
        (i) consideration of opportunities for involvement by and support for the Park by State, county, and local governmental entities and nonprofit organizations and other interested parties; and
        (ii) steps for the preservation of the resources of the site and the costs associated with these efforts.
      (D) Submission to Congress
         On the completion of the general management plan, the Secretary shall submit a copy of the plan to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (3) Cooperative agreements
       The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with State, county, local, and civic organizations to carry out this section.
  (c) Report
     Not later than 3 years after March 30, 2009, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House a report describing the progress made with respect to acquiring real property under this section and designating the River Raisin National Battlefield Park.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
