  (a) Establishment
     There is established the Semiconductor Technology Council.
  (b) Purposes and functions
    (1) The purposes of the Council are the following:
      (A) To link assessment by the semiconductor industry of future market and national security needs to opportunities for technology development through cooperative public and private investment.
      (B) To seek ways to respond to the technology challenges for semiconductors by fostering precompetitive cooperation among industry, the Federal Government, and institutions of higher education.
      (C) To make available judgments, assessments, insights, and recommendations that relate to the opportunities for new research and development efforts and the potential to better rationalize and align industry and government contributions to semiconductor research and development.
    (2) The Council shall carry out the following functions:
      (A) Advise Sematech and the Secretary of Defense on appropriate technology goals and appropriate level of effort for the research and development activities of Sematech.
      (B) Review the emerging markets, technology developments, and core technology challenges for semiconductor research and development and semiconductor manufacturing and explore opportunities for improved coordination among industry, the Federal Government, and institutions of higher education regarding such developments and challenges.
      (C) Assess the effect on the appropriate role of Sematech of public and private sector international agreements in semiconductor research and development.
      (D) Exchange views regarding the competitiveness of United States semiconductor technology and new or emerging semiconductor technologies that could affect national economic and security interests.
      (E) Exchange and update information and identify overlaps and gaps regarding the efforts of industry, the Federal Government, and institutions of higher education in semiconductor research and development.
      (F) Assess technology progress relative to industry requirements and Federal Government requirements, responding as appropriate to the challenges in the national semiconductor technology roadmap developed by representatives of industry, the Federal Government, and institutions of higher education.
      (G) Make recommendations regarding the semiconductor technology development efforts that should be supported by Federal agencies and industry.
      (H) Appoint subgroups as appropriate in connection with the updating of the semiconductor technology roadmap.
        (I) Publish and submit to Congress by March 31 of each year an annual report addressing the semiconductor technology challenges and developments for industry, government, and institutions of higher education and the relationship among the challenges and developments for each, including an evaluation of the role of Sematech.
  (c) Membership
     The Council shall be composed of 16 members as follows:
    (1) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics who shall be Cochairman of the Council.
    (2) The Under Secretary of Energy responsible for science and technology matters.
    (3) The Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology.
    (4) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
    (5) The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
    (6) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
    (7) Ten members appointed by the President as follows:
      (A) Four individuals who are eminent in the semiconductor device industry, one of whom shall be Cochairman of the Council.
      (B) Two individuals who are eminent in the semiconductor equipment and materials industry.
      (C) Three individuals who are eminent in the semiconductor user industry, including representatives from the telecommunications and computer industries.
      (D) One individual who is eminent in an academic institution.
  (d) Terms of membership
     Each member of the Council appointed under subsection (c)(7) of this section shall be appointed for a term of three years, except that of the members first appointed, two shall be appointed for a term of one year, five shall be appointed for a term of two years, and three shall be appointed for a term of three years, as designated by the President at the time of appointment. A member of the Council may serve after the expiration of the member“s term until a successor has taken office.
  (e) Vacancies
     A vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers but, in the case of a member appointed under subsection (c)(7) of this section, shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall be appointed for the remainder of such term.
  (f) Quorum
     Eleven members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
  (g) Meetings
     The Council shall meet at the call of a Cochairman.
  (h) Compensation
    (1) Each member of the Council shall serve without compensation.
    (2) While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of duties for the Council, members of the Council shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5.
      (i) Federal Advisory Committee Act
         Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the Council.
      (j) Support for Council
         The Council shall use Federal funds made available to Sematech as needed for general and administrative support in accomplishing the Council“s purposes.
