  (a) Purpose
     The purpose of this section is to authorize within the Department of the Interior the Save America“s Treasures Program, to be carried out by the Director of the National Park Service, in partnership with–
    (1) the National Endowment for the Arts;
    (2) the National Endowment for the Humanities;
    (3) the Institute of Museum and Library Services;
    (4) the National Trust for Historic Preservation;
    (5) the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers;
    (6) the National Association of Tribal Historic Preservation Officers; and
    (7) the President“s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities.
  (b) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Collection
       The term ””collection““ means a collection of intellectual and cultural artifacts, including documents, sculpture, and works of art.
    (2) Eligible entity
       The term ””eligible entity““ means a Federal entity, State, local, or tribal government, educational institution, or nonprofit organization.
    (3) Historic property
       The term ””historic property““ has the meaning given the term in section 470w of this title.
    (4) Nationally significant
       The term ””nationally significant““ means a collection or historic property that meets the applicable criteria for national significance, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 470a(a)(2) of this title.
    (5) Program
       The term ””program““ means the Save America“s Treasures Program established under subsection (c)(1).
    (6) Secretary
       The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.
  (c) Establishment
    (1) In general
       There is established in the Department of the Interior the Save America“s Treasures program, under which the amounts made available to the Secretary under subsection (e) shall be used by the Secretary, in consultation with the organizations described in subsection (a), subject to paragraph (6)(A)(ii), to provide grants to eligible entities for projects to preserve nationally significant collections and historic properties.
    (2) Determination of grants
       Of the amounts made available for grants under subsection (e), not less than 50 percent shall be made available for grants for projects to preserve collections and historic properties, to be distributed through a competitive grant process administered by the Secretary, subject to the eligibility criteria established under paragraph (5).
    (3) Applications for grants
       To be considered for a competitive grant under the program an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application containing such information as the Secretary may require.
    (4) Collections and historic properties eligible for competitive grants
      (A) In general
         A collection or historic property shall be provided a competitive grant under the program only if the Secretary determines that the collection or historic property is–
        (i) nationally significant; and
        (ii) threatened or endangered.
      (B) Eligible collections
         A determination by the Secretary regarding the national significance of collections under subparagraph (A)(i) shall be made in consultation with the organizations described in subsection (a), as appropriate.
      (C) Eligible historic properties
         To be eligible for a competitive grant under the program, a historic property shall, as of the date of the grant application–
        (i) be listed in the National Register of Historic Places at the national level of significance; or
        (ii) be designated as a National Historic Landmark.
    (5) Selection criteria for grants
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall not provide a grant under this section to a project for an eligible collection or historic property unless the project–
        (i) eliminates or substantially mitigates the threat of destruction or deterioration of the eligible collection or historic property;
        (ii) has a clear public benefit; and
        (iii) is able to be completed on schedule and within the budget described in the grant application.
      (B) Preference
         In providing grants under this section, the Secretary may give preference to projects that carry out the purposes of both the program and the Preserve America Program.
      (C) Limitation
         In providing grants under this section, the Secretary shall only provide 1 grant to each eligible project selected for a grant.
    (6) Consultation and notification by Secretary
      (A) Consultation
        (i) In general
           Subject to clause (ii), the Secretary shall consult with the organizations described in subsection (a) in preparing the list of projects to be provided grants for a fiscal year by the Secretary under the program.
        (ii) Limitation
           If an entity described in clause (i) has submitted an application for a grant under the program, the entity shall be recused by the Secretary from the consultation requirements under that clause and paragraph (1).
      (B) Notification
         Not later than 30 days before the date on which the Secretary provides grants for a fiscal year under the program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a list of any eligible projects that are to be provided grants under the program for the fiscal year.
    (7) Cost-sharing requirement
      (A) In general
         The non-Federal share of the cost of carrying out a project provided a grant under this section shall be not less than 50 percent of the total cost of the project.
      (B) Form of non-Federal share
         The non-Federal share required under subparagraph (A) shall be in the form of–
        (i) cash; or
        (ii) donated supplies or related services, the value of which shall be determined by the Secretary.
      (C) Requirement
         The Secretary shall ensure that each applicant for a grant has the capacity and a feasible plan for securing the non-Federal share for an eligible project required under subparagraph (A) before a grant is provided to the eligible project under the program.
  (d) Regulations
     The Secretary shall develop any guidelines and issue any regulations that the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
  (e) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for each fiscal year, to remain available until expended.
