  (a) Purpose
     Because the fabric of a society is strengthened by visible reminders of the historical roots of the society, it is in the national interest of the United States to encourage the preservation and protection of the cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings associated with the foreign heritage of United States citizens.
  (b) Establishment
     There is established a commission to be known as the Commission for the Preservation of America“s Heritage Abroad (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Commission““).
  (c) Duties
     The Commission shall–
    (1) identify and publish a list of those cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings located abroad which are associated with the foreign heritage of United States citizens from eastern and central Europe, particularly those cemeteries, monuments, and buildings which are in danger of deterioration or destruction;
    (2) encourage the preservation and protection of such cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings by obtaining, in cooperation with the Department of State, assurances from foreign governments that the cemeteries, monuments, and buildings will be preserved and protected; and
    (3) prepare and disseminate reports on the condition of and the progress toward preserving and protecting such cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings.
  (d) Membership
    (1) The Commission shall consist of 21 members appointed by the President, 7 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the Speaker of the House of Representatives and 7 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the President pro tempore of the Senate.
    (2)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of 3 years.
      (B) Of the members first appointed after consultation with the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 5 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years. Of the members first appointed after consultation with the President pro tempore of the Senate, 5 shall be appointed for 2 years.
      (C) A member appointed to fill a vacancy on the Commission shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the member“s predecessor was appointed.
      (D) A member may retain membership on the Commission until the member“s successor has been appointed.
    (3) The President shall designate the Chairman of the Commission from among its members.
  (e) Meetings
     The Commission shall meet at least once every six months.
  (f) Compensation and per diem
    (1) Members of the Commission shall receive no pay on account of their service on the Commission.
    (2) While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.
  (g) Authorities
    (1) The Commission or any member it authorizes may, for the purposes of carrying out this section, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, request such attendance, take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission considers appropriate.
    (2) The Commission may appoint such personnel (subject to the provisions of title 5 which govern appointments in the competitive service) and may fix the pay of such personnel (subject to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates) as the Commission deems desirable.
    (3) The Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic pay then in effect for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5332(a)).
    (4) Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency, including the Secretary of State, may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such department or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this section.
    (5) The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States, including the Department of State, any information necessary to enable it to carry out this section. Upon the request of the Chairman of the Commission, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.
    (6) The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations of money or property.
    (7) The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and upon the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the United States.
    (8) The Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such administrative support services as the Commission may request.
  (h) Reports
     The Commission shall transmit an annual report to the President and to each House of Congress as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year. Each report shall include a detailed statement of the activities and accomplishments of the Commission during the preceding fiscal year and any recommendations by the Commission for legislation and administrative actions.
