  (a) Omitted
  (b) National Women“s Rights History Project National Registry
    (1) In general
       The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the ””Secretary““) may make annual grants to State historic preservation offices for not more than 5 years to assist the State historic preservation offices in surveying, evaluating, and nominating to the National Register of Historic Places women“s rights history properties.
    (2) Eligibility
       In making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to grants relating to properties associated with the multiple facets of the women“s rights movement, such as politics, economics, education, religion, and social and family rights.
    (3) Updates
       The Secretary shall ensure that the National Register travel itinerary website entitled ””Places Where Women Made History““ is updated to contain–
      (A) the results of the inventory conducted under paragraph (1); and
      (B) any links to websites related to places on the inventory.
    (4) Cost-sharing requirement
       The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this subsection shall be 50 percent.
    (5) Authorization of appropriations
       There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.
  (c) National Women“s Rights History Project Partnerships Network
    (1) Grants
       The Secretary may make matching grants and give technical assistance for development of a network of governmental and nongovernmental entities (referred to in this subsection as the ””network““), the purpose of which is to provide interpretive and educational program development of national women“s rights history, including historic preservation.
    (2) Management of network
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall, through a competitive process, designate a nongovernmental managing network to manage the network.
      (B) Coordination
         The nongovernmental managing entity designated under subparagraph (A) shall work in partnership with the Director of the National Park Service and State historic preservation offices to coordinate operation of the network.
    (3) Cost-sharing requirement
      (A) In general
         The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this subsection shall be 50 percent.
      (B) State historic preservation offices
         Matching grants for historic preservation specific to the network may be made available through State historic preservation offices.
    (4) Authorization of appropriations
       There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.
