  (a) Purpose
     The purpose of this section is to authorize the Preserve America Program, including–
    (1) the Preserve America grant program within the Department of the Interior;
    (2) the recognition programs administered by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; and
    (3) the related efforts of Federal agencies, working in partnership with State, tribal, and local governments and the private sector, to support and promote the preservation of historic resources.
  (b) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) Council
       The term ””Council““ means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
    (2) Heritage tourism
       The term ””heritage tourism““ means the conduct of activities to attract and accommodate visitors to a site or area based on the unique or special aspects of the history, landscape (including trail systems), and culture of the site or area.
    (3) Program
       The term ””program““ means the Preserve America Program established under subsection (c)(1).
    (4) Secretary
       The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (c) Establishment
    (1) In general
       There is established in the Department of the Interior the Preserve America Program, under which the Secretary, in partnership with the Council, may provide competitive grants to States, local governments (including local governments in the process of applying for designation as Preserve America Communities under subsection (d)), Indian tribes, communities designated as Preserve America Communities under subsection (d), State historic preservation offices, and tribal historic preservation offices to support preservation efforts through heritage tourism, education, and historic preservation planning activities.
    (2) Eligible projects
      (A) In general
         The following projects shall be eligible for a grant under this section:
        (i) A project for the conduct of–
          (I) research on, and documentation of, the history of a community; and
          (II) surveys of the historic resources of a community.
        (ii) An education and interpretation project that conveys the history of a community or site.
        (iii) A planning project (other than building rehabilitation) that advances economic development using heritage tourism and historic preservation.
        (iv) A training project that provides opportunities for professional development in areas that would aid a community in using and promoting its historic resources.
        (v) A project to support heritage tourism in a Preserve America Community designated under subsection (d).
        (vi) Other nonconstruction projects that identify or promote historic properties or provide for the education of the public about historic properties that are consistent with the purposes of this section.
      (B) Limitation
         In providing grants under this section, the Secretary shall only provide 1 grant to each eligible project selected for a grant.
    (3) Preference
       In providing grants under this section, the Secretary may give preference to projects that carry out the purposes of both the program and the Save America“s Treasures Program.
    (4) Consultation and notification
      (A) Consultation
         The Secretary shall consult with the Council in preparing the list of projects to be provided grants for a fiscal year under the program.
      (B) Notification
         Not later than 30 days before the date on which the Secretary provides grants for a fiscal year under the program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a list of any eligible projects that are to be provided grants under the program for the fiscal year.
    (5) Cost-sharing requirement
      (A) In general
         The non-Federal share of the cost of carrying out a project provided a grant under this section shall be not less than 50 percent of the total cost of the project.
      (B) Form of non-Federal share
         The non-Federal share required under subparagraph (A) shall be in the form of–
        (i) cash; or
        (ii) donated supplies and related services, the value of which shall be determined by the Secretary.
      (C) Requirement
         The Secretary shall ensure that each applicant for a grant has the capacity to secure, and a feasible plan for securing, the non-Federal share for an eligible project required under subparagraph (A) before a grant is provided to the eligible project under the program.
  (d) Designation of Preserve America Communities
    (1) Application
       To be considered for designation as a Preserve America Community, a community, tribal area, or neighborhood shall submit to the Council an application containing such information as the Council may require.
    (2) Criteria
       To be designated as a Preserve America Community under the program, a community, tribal area, or neighborhood that submits an application under paragraph (1) shall, as determined by the Council, in consultation with the Secretary, meet criteria required by the Council and, in addition, consider–
      (A) protection and celebration of the heritage of the community, tribal area, or neighborhood;
      (B) use of the historic assets of the community, tribal area, or neighborhood for economic development and community revitalization; and
      (C) encouragement of people to experience and appreciate local historic resources through education and heritage tourism programs.
    (3) Local governments previously certified for historic preservation activities
       The Council shall establish an expedited process for Preserve America Community designation for local governments previously certified for historic preservation activities under section 470a(c)(1) of this title.
    (4) Guidelines
       The Council, in consultation with the Secretary, shall establish any guidelines that are necessary to carry out this subsection.
  (e) Regulations
     The Secretary shall develop any guidelines and issue any regulations that the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each fiscal year, to remain available until expended.
