  (a) Grant applications; amounts; reports; conditions
     No grant may be made under this subchapter–
    (1) unless application therefor is submitted to the Secretary in accordance with regulations and procedures prescribed by him;
    (2) unless the application is in accordance with the comprehensive statewide historic preservation plan which has been approved by the Secretary after considering its relationship to the comprehensive statewide outdoor recreation plan prepared pursuant to the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (78 Stat. 897) [16 U.S.C. 460T3lK–4 et seq.];
    (3) for more than 60 percent of the aggregate costs of carrying out projects and programs under the administrative control of the State Historic Preservation Officer as specified in section 470a(b)(3) of this title in any one fiscal year;
    (4) unless the grantee has agreed to make such reports, in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may from time to time require;
    (5) unless the grantee has agreed to assume, after completion of the project, the total cost of the continued maintenance, repair, and administration of the property in a manner satisfactory to the Secretary; and
    (6) until the grantee has complied with such further terms and conditions as the Secretary may deem necessary or advisable.
       Except as permitted by other law, the State share of the costs referred to in paragraph (3) shall be contributed by non-Federal sources. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no grant made pursuant to this subchapter shall be treated as taxable income for purposes of title 26.
  (b) Waiver
     The Secretary may in his discretion waive the requirements of subsection (a), paragraphs (2) and (5) of this section for any grant under this subchapter to the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States.
  (c) Repealed. Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 202(c), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2993
  (d) \1\N Remaining cost of project
     No State shall be permitted to utilize the value of real property obtained before October 15, 1966, in meeting the remaining cost of a project for which a grant is made under this subchapter.
  (d) \1\ Availability
     The Secretary shall make funding available to individual States and the National Trust for Historic Preservation as soon as practicable after execution of a grant agreement. For purposes of administration, grants to individual States and the National Trust each shall be considered to be one grant and shall be administered by the National Park Service as such.
  (e) Administrative costs
     The total administrative costs, direct and indirect, charged for carrying out State projects and programs may not exceed 25 percent of the aggregate costs except in the case of grants under section 470a(e)(6) of this title.
