  (a) Basis for apportionment
     The amounts appropriated and made available for grants to the States for the purposes of this subchapter shall be apportioned among the States by the Secretary on the basis of needs as determined by him.
  (b) Basis; notification to State; reapportionment
     The amounts appropriated and made available for grants to the States for projects and programs under this subchapter for each fiscal year shall be apportioned among the States as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
     The Secretary shall notify each State of its apportionment under this subsection within thirty days following the date of enactment of legislation appropriating funds under this subchapter. Any amount of any apportionment that has not been paid or obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal year in which such notification is given, and for two fiscal years thereafter, shall be reapportioned by the Secretary in accordance with this subsection. The Secretary shall analyze and revise as necessary the method of apportionment. Such method and any revision thereof shall be published by the Secretary in the Federal Register.
  (c) Transfer of funds to local governments
     A minimum of 10 per centum of the annual apportionment distributed by the Secretary to each State for the purposes of carrying out this subchapter shall be transferred by the State, pursuant to the requirements of this subchapter, to local governments which are certified under section 470a(c) of this title for historic preservation projects or programs of such local governments. In any year in which the total annual apportionment to the States exceeds $65,000,000, one half of the excess shall also be transferred by the States to local governments certified pursuant to section 470a(c) of this title.
  (d) Guidelines for use and distribution of funds to local governments
     The Secretary shall establish guidelines for the use and distribution of funds under subsection (c) of this section to insure that no local government receives a disproportionate share of the funds available, and may include a maximum or minimum limitation on the amount of funds distributed to any single local government. The guidelines shall not limit the ability of any State to distribute more than 10 per centum of its annual apportionment under subsection (c) of this section, nor shall the Secretary require any State to exceed the 10 per centum minimum distribution to local governments.
