  (a) Establishment; membership; Chairman
     There is established as an independent agency of the United States Government an Advisory Council on Historic Preservation which shall be composed of the following members:
    (1) a Chairman appointed by the President selected from the general public;
    (2) the Secretary of the Interior;
    (3) the Architect of the Capitol;
    (4) the Secretary of Agriculture and the heads of seven other agencies of the United States (other than the Department of the Interior) the activities of which affect historic preservation, designated by the President;
    (5) one Governor appointed by the President;
    (6) one mayor appointed by the President;
    (7) the President of the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers;
    (8) the Chairman of the National Trust for Historic Preservation;
    (9) four experts in the field of historic preservation appointed by the President from the disciplines of architecture, history, archeology, and other appropriate disciplines;
    (10) three at-large members from the general public, appointed by the President; and
    (11) one member of an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization who represents the interests of the tribe or organization of which he or she is a member, appointed by the President.
  (b) Designation of substitutes
     Each member of the Council specified in paragraphs (2) through (8) other than (6) of subsection (a) of this section may designate another officer of his department, agency, or organization to serve on the Council in his stead, except that, in the case of paragraphs (2) and (4), no such officer other than an Assistant Secretary or an officer having major department-wide or agency-wide responsibilities may be so designated.
  (c) Term of office
     Each member of the Council appointed under paragraph (1), and under paragraphs (9) through (11) of subsection (a) of this section shall serve for a term of four years from the expiration of his predecessor“s term; except that the members first appointed under that paragraph shall serve for terms of one to four years, as designated by the President at the time of appointment, in such manner as to insure that the terms of not more than two of them will expire in any one year. The members appointed under paragraphs (5) and (6) shall serve for the term of their elected office but not in excess of four years. An appointed member may not serve more than two terms. An appointed member whose term has expired shall serve until that member“s successor has been appointed.
  (d) Vacancies; term of office of members already appointed
     A vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled, not later than sixty days after such vacancy commences, in the same manner as the original appointment (and for the balance of any unexpired terms). The members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation appointed by the President under this subchapter as in effect on the day before December 12, 1980, shall remain in office until all members of the Council, as specified in this section, have been appointed. The members first appointed under this section shall be appointed not later than one hundred and eighty days after December 12, 1980.
  (e) Designation of Vice Chairman
     The President shall designate a Vice Chairman, from the members appointed under paragraph (5), (6), (9), or (10). The Vice Chairman may act in place of the Chairman during the absence or disability of the Chairman or when the office is vacant.
  (f) Quorum
     12 members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
