  (a) Coastal fishery management plans
    (1) The Commission shall prepare and adopt coastal fishery management plans to provide for the conservation of coastal fishery resources. In preparing a coastal fishery management plan for a fishery that is located in both State waters and the exclusive economic zone, the Commission shall consult with appropriate Councils to determine areas where such coastal fishery management plan may complement Council fishery management plans. The coastal fishery management plan shall specify the requirements necessary for States to be in compliance with the plan. Upon adoption of a coastal fishery management plan, the Commission shall identify each State that is required to implement and enforce that plan.
    (2) Within 1 year after December 20, 1993, the Commission shall establish standards and procedures to govern the preparation of coastal fishery management plans under this chapter, including standards and procedures to ensure that–
      (A) such plans promote the conservation of fish stocks throughout their ranges and are based on the best scientific information available; and
      (B) the Commission provides adequate opportunity for public participation in the plan preparation process, including at least four public hearings and procedures for the submission of written comments to the Commission.
  (b) State implementation and enforcement
    (1) Each State identified under subsection (a) of this section with respect to a coastal fishery management plan shall implement and enforce the measures of such plan within the timeframe established in the plan.
    (2) Within 90 days after December 20, 1993, the Commission shall establish a schedule of timeframes within which States shall implement and enforce the measures of coastal fishery management plans in existence before December 20, 1993. No such timeframe shall exceed 12 months after the date on which the schedule is adopted.
  (c) Commission monitoring of State implementation and enforcement
     The Commission shall, at least annually, review each State“s implementation and enforcement of coastal fishery management plans for the purpose of determining whether such State is effectively implementing and enforcing each such plan. Upon completion of such reviews, the Commission shall report the results of the reviews to the Secretaries.
