  (a) Establishment
    (1) There is hereby established in the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, the Bowen Gulch Protection Area (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the ””protection area““).
    (2) The protection area shall consist of certain lands in the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, which comprise approximately 11,600 acres, as generally depicted as ””Area A““ on a map entitled ””Bowen Gulch Additions to Never Summer Wilderness Proposal““, dated January, 1993.
  (b) Administration
     The Secretary shall administer the protection area in accordance with this section and the laws and regulations generally applicable to the National Forest System.
  (c) Withdrawal
     Subject to valid existing rights, all lands within the protection area are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition under the mineral and geothermal leasing laws, including all amendments thereto.
  (d) Development
     No developed campgrounds shall be constructed within the protection area. After August 13, 1993, no new roads or trails may be constructed within the protection area.
  (e) Timber harvesting
     No timber harvesting shall be allowed within the protection area except to the extent that would be permitted in wilderness under section 1133(d)(1) of this title for necessary control of fire, insects, and diseases, and for public safety.
  (f) Motorized travel
     Motorized travel shall be permitted within the protection area only on those designated trails and routes existing as of July 1, 1991, and only during periods of adequate snow cover. At all other times, mechanized, non-motorized travel shall be permitted within the protection area.
  (g) Management plan
     During the revision of the Land and Resource Management Plan for the Arapaho National Forest, the Forest Service shall develop a management plan for the protection area, after providing for public comment.
