  (a) Boundaries
     The research site shall consist of approximately thirty-one thousand acres, including a principle \1\N research facility of approximately one thousand acres. The boundaries are depicted on a map entitled ””Langmuir Research Site““, dated August 1980, which is on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Chief, Forest Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
  (b) Development of plan
     As soon as practicable, after December 19, 1980, the Secretary of Agriculture shall develop a comprehensive management plan for the research site consistent with requirements of the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–588) (16 U.S.C. 1604), which shall be incorporated into the initial Cibola National Forest land and resource management plan as provided for under that Act.
  (c) Adjustment in boundaries
     Following timely notice in writing to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate of his intention to do so, the Secretary may make minor adjustments in the boundaries of the research site to provide for more effective management or to encourage further research activity. For the purposes of this subsection, minor boundary adjustments shall not increase or decrease the amount of land within the research site by more than seven thousand acres.
  (d) Consultation with other public interest groups
     In developing the plan, the Secretary shall consult with the National Science Foundation, the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, the New Mexico Academy of Science and appropriate conservation, wilderness, wildlife, industry, and other public interest groups.
  (e) Objectives of plan
     The plan shall prescribe specific research and management objectives necessary for the protection, management, and regulation of the research site as outlined in subsection (f) of this section.
  (f) Management of site in accordance with the objectives
     The research site shall be managed in accordance with the following objectives:
    (1) The principal research facility shall be managed primarily for scientific research purposes. Dispersed recreation, grazing, and other uses which the Secretary determines to be compatible with scientific research may be permitted.
    (2) The research site shall be managed to enhance scientific research objectives. Scientific research activities and associated research equipment and structures shall be permitted within the research site in accordance with the plan.
    (3) Roads shall be limited to those necessary for scientific research activities and other reasonable activities as determined by the Secretary. Motor vehicle use shall be restricted to roads designated in the plan.
    (4) The landing of small instrumented research rockets shall be permitted to continue in portions of the research site designated for such purposes in the plan.
