  (a) Assistance to counties
     The Secretary shall provide technical assistance on a nonreimbursable basis to counties for the development of land use ordinances prescribed by sections 544e and 544f of this title: T3ProvidedK, That in the event a county fails to obtain approval by the Commission for a land use ordinance within three years after the date technical assistance is first provided under this subsection for the development of a land use ordinance, the Secretary shall terminate all technical assistance for any participation in the development of such ordinance.
  (b) Payment of timber receipts
    (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 500 of this title, that portion of which is paid under such provisions to the State of Oregon with respect to the special management areas within the Mount Hood National Forest, the Gates of the Columbia Gorge Special Management Area, Mount Hood National Forest, and to the State of Washington with respect to the special management areas within the Gifford Pinchot National Forest–
      (A) not less than 50 per centum shall be expended for the benefit of the public schools of the county which has adopted implementation measures pursuant to sections 544 to 544p of this title; and
      (B) the remainder shall be expended for the benefit of public roads or any public purposes of any county which has adopted implementation measures pursuant to sections 544 to 544p of this title.
    (2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply–
      (A) to any amount paid by the Secretary of the Treasury under the provisions of law referred to in subsection (b)(1) of this section at the end of any fiscal year ending before November 17, 1986; or
      (B) for a particular county, if the county does not have in effect a land use ordinance which has been found consistent by the Commission and concurred on by the Secretary pursuant to section 544f of this title.
  (c) Payments to local governments
    (1) Subject to section 544n(b) of this title, in the case of any land or interest therein acquired by the Secretary pursuant to section 544g of this title, which was subject to local real property taxes within the five years preceding such acquisition and which is located in a county which has in effect a land use ordinance which has been found consistent by the Commission and concurred on by the Secretary pursuant to section 544f of this title, the Secretary is authorized and directed to make annual payments to the county in which such lands are located in an amount equal to 1 per centum of the fair market value of such land or interest therein on the date of acquisition by the Secretary.
    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection, any payment made for any fiscal year to a county pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed the amount of real property taxes assessed and levied on such property during the last full fiscal year before the fiscal year in which such land or interest therein was acquired by the Secretary.
    (3) T4Limitation.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Except as provided in subparagraph (B), no payment shall be made under this subsection with respect to any land or interest therein after the eighth full fiscal year beginning after the first fiscal year in which such a payment was made with respect to such land or interest therein.
      (B) T4Continuation of certain paymentsK.–For any land or interest in land for which the Secretary is making a payment in fiscal year 2000, such payment shall be continued for a total of eight fiscal years.
  (d) Federal consistency
     Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this section or in section 544T3oK of this title, Federal agencies having responsibilities within the scenic area shall exercise such responsibilities consistent with the provisions of sections 544 to 544p of this title as determined by the Secretary.
  (e) Limitations on Federal expenditures affecting the scenic area
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), if the Commission has not been established pursuant to section 544c of this title within fifteen months after November 17, 1986, or is otherwise disestablished for any reason, no new expenditures or new financial assistance may be made available, and no new license or new permit, or exemption from a license or permit requirement, shall be issued, under authority of any Federal law for any activity within the scenic area, excluding urban areas, which the Secretary,\1\N determines is inconsistent with any implementation measure pursuant to, the standards established in section 544d(b) of this title, or the purposes of sections 544 to 544p of this title.
    (2)      (A)        (i) An expenditure or financial assistance made available under authority of Federal law shall be treated, for purposes of this subsection, as a new expenditure or new financial assistance if–
          (I) in any case with respect to which specific appropriations are required, no money for construction or purchase was appropriated before October 1, 1986; or
          (II) no legally binding commitment for the expenditure or financial assistance was made before October 1, 1986.
        (ii) Payments made to the State pursuant to the following Acts shall not be treated as an expenditure or financial assistance for purposes of this subsection: section 500 of this title; the Mineral Lands Leasing Act of 1920 [30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.]; chapter 69 of title 31 (relating to payments in lieu of taxes for entitlement land); the Act of June 9, 1916 (39 Stat. 218), and the Act of Feb. 26, 1919 (40 Stat. 1179).
      (B) A license or permit, or exemption from a license or permit requirement, shall be treated, for purposes of this subsection, as a new license or new permit, or exemption from a license or permit requirement, if such license or permit, or exemption from a license or permit requirement, was issued on or after October 1, 1986. A renewal under similar terms and conditions of a license or permit, or exemption from a license or permit requirement, issued before October 1, 1986, shall not be treated as a new license or new permit, or exemption from a license or permit requirement.
    (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the appropriate Federal officer, after consultation with the Secretary, may make Federal expenditures or financial assistance available within the area for any of the following:
      (A) The maintenance of existing channel improvements and related structures, and including the disposal of dredge materials related to such improvements.
      (B) The maintenance, replacement, reconstruction, or repair, but not the expansion, of publicly owned or publicly operated roads, structures, or facilities that are essential links in a larger network or system.
      (C) Military activities essential to national security.
      (D) Any of the following actions or projects, but only if the making available of expenditures or assistance therefor is consistent with the standards in section 544d(b) of this title and the purposes of sections 544 to 544p of this title:
        (i) Projects for the study, management, protection and enhancement of fish and wildlife resources and habitats, including, but not limited to, acquisition of fish and wildlife habitats and related lands, stabilization projects for fish and wildlife habitats, and recreational projects.
        (ii) The establishment, operation, and maintenance of air and water navigation aids and devices, and for access thereto.
        (iii) Projects under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460T3lK–4 through 11) and the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.).
        (iv) Scientific research, including but not limited to aeronautical, atmospheric, space, geologic, marine, fish and wildlife, and other research, development, and applications.
        (v) Assistance for emergency actions essential to the saving of lives and the protection of property and the public health and safety, if such actions are performed pursuant to sections 305 and 306 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5145 and 5146) \2\N and section 1362 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4103) \2\ and are limited to actions that are necessary to alleviate the emergency.
        (vi) The maintenance, replacement, reconstruction, or repair, but not the expansion, of publicly owned or publicly operated roads, structures, or facilities. This clause shall not apply to roads, structures, or facilities referred to in paragraph (3)(B).
        (vii) Nonstructural projects for shoreline stabilization that are designed to mimic, enhance, or restore natural stabilization systems.
    (4) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, on behalf of each Federal agency concerned, make written certification that each such agency has complied with the provisions of this subsection during each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1987. Such certification shall be submitted on an annual basis to the House of Representatives and the Senate pursuant to the schedule required under the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974.
    (5) Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as indicating an intent on the part of the Congress to change the existing relationship of other Federal laws to the law of a State, or a political subdivision of a State, or to relieve any person or any obligation imposed by any law of any State, or political subdivision of a State. No provision of this subsection shall be construed to invalidate any provision of State or local law unless there is a direct conflict between such provision and the law of the State, or political subdivision of the State, so that the two cannot be reconciled or consistently stand together. This subsection shall in no way be interpreted to interfere with a State“s right to protect, rehabilitate, preserve, and restore lands within its established boundary.
  (f) Transfer of public lands
     Subject to valid existing rights, all public lands within the scenic area administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Land Management are hereby transferred without consideration to the jurisdiction of the Secretary to be managed as National Forest lands in accordance with the provisions of sections 544 to 544p of this title.
