  (a) National scenic area
    (1) There is hereby established the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.
    (2) T4Boundaries.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the boundaries of the scenic area shall be generally depicted on the map entitled ””Boundary Map, Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area,““ numbered NSA–001 sheets 1 and 2, and dated September 1986, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Commission and of the Chief, Forest Service.
      (B) T4ExclusionsK.–The scenic area shall not include the approximately 29 acres of land owned by the Port of Camas-Washougal in the South \1/2\ of Section 16, Township 1 North, Range 4 East, and the North \1/2\ of Section 21, Township 1 North, Range 4 East, Willamete \1\N Meridian, Clark County, Washington, that consists of–
        (i) the approximately 19 acres of Port land acquired from the Corps of Engineers under the Second Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1984 (Public Law 98–396); and
        (ii) the approximately 10 acres of adjacent Port land to the west of the land described in clause (i).
  (b) Special management areas
    (1) The following areas within the boundaries of the scenic area are hereby designated ””Special Management Areas““: Gates of the Columbia River Gorge; Wind Mountain; Burdoin Mountain; and Rowena.
    (2) The boundaries of the special management areas designated by paragraph (1)–
      (A) shall be generally depicted on the map entitled ””Special Management Areas, Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area““, numbered SMA–002 sheets 1 through 17, and dated September 1986, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Commission and of the Chief, Forest Service; and
      (B) shall include all islands within the boundaries of the scenic area.
    (3) T4Modification of boundariesK.–The boundaries of the special management areas are modified as depicted on a map dated September 20, 2000, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest Service in Washington, District of Columbia, and copies shall be available in the office of the Commission, and the headquarters of the scenic area.
  (c) Revision of special management area boundaries
     The Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, may make minor revisions in the boundaries of special management areas after publication of notice to that effect in the Federal Register and submission of notice thereof to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committees on Agriculture and Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives. Such notice shall be published and submitted at least sixty days before the revision is made. Notice of final action regarding such revision shall also be published in the Federal Register.
  (d) Dodson/Warrendale Special Purchase Unit
    (1) There is hereby established the Dodson/Warrendale Special Purchase Unit.
    (2) The boundaries of the Dodson/Warrendale Special Purchase Unit shall be generally depicted on the map entitled ””Dodson/Warrendale Special Purchase Unit, Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area““, numbered SPU–003 sheet 1, and dated September 1986, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Commission and of the Chief, Forest Service.
  (e) Urban areas
    (1) The following cities and towns are hereby designated as ””Urban Areas““: Cascade Locks, Hood River, Mosier, and The Dalles, Oregon; and Bingen, Carson, Dallesport, Home Valley, Lyle, North Bonneville, Stevenson, White Salmon, and Wishram, Washington.
    (2) The boundaries of urban areas shall be generally depicted on the map entitled, ””Urban Areas, Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area““, numbered UA–004 sheets 1 through 11, and dated September 1986, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Commission and of the Chief, Forest Service. The boundaries of urban areas designated in this subsection may be revised pursuant to the provisions of this section.
  (f) Revision of urban area boundaries
    (1) Upon application of a county and in consultation with the Secretary, the Commission may make minor revisions to the boundaries of any urban area identified in subsection (e) of this section. A majority vote of two-thirds of the members of the Commission, including a majority of the members appointed from each State, shall be required to approve any revision of urban area boundaries.
    (2) The Commission may revise the boundaries of an urban area only if it finds that–
      (A) a demonstrable need exists to accommodate long-range urban population growth requirements or economic needs consistent with the management plan;
      (B) revision of urban area boundaries would be consistent with the standards established in section 544d of this title and the purposes of sections 544 to 544p of this title;
      (C) revision of urban area boundaries would result in maximum efficiency of land uses within and on the fringe of existing urban areas; and
      (D) revision of urban area boundaries would not result in the significant reduction of agricultural lands, forest lands, or open spaces.
