  (a) Management of scenic area
     The non-Federal lands within the scenic area shall be administered by the Commission in accordance with the management plan and sections 544 to 544p of this title.
  (b) Adoption of scenic area land use ordinances
    (1) Within sixty days of initial receipt of the management plan, each county shall submit to the Commission a letter stating that it proposes to adopt a land use ordinance consistent with the management plan. If any county fails to submit such letter or fails to adopt a land use ordinance as provided in this section, the Commission shall carry out the requirements of subsection (c) of this section.
    (2) Within two hundred and seventy days of receipt of the management plan, each county shall adopt a land use ordinance consistent with the management plan, and thereafter may adopt an amendment, revision or variance to a land use ordinance at any time. Each county upon adoption of a land use ordinance shall promptly submit the ordinance to the Commission.
    (3) T4Approval by commissionK.–(A) Within ninety days after receipt of a land use ordinance, the Commission, by majority vote including at least three members from each State, shall approve the ordinance unless it determines the ordinance is inconsistent with the management plan. Should the Commission fail to act within ninety days, the ordinance shall be deemed to be approved.
  (B) If approval is denied, the Commission shall state the reasons for finding the ordinance is inconsistent with the management plan, and shall submit to the county suggested modifications to the ordinance to make it consistent with the management plan.
  (C) Each county shall have ninety days after it receives recommendations from the Commission to make modifications designed to eliminate the inconsistencies and to resubmit the ordinance to the Commission for approval. The Commission shall have sixty days to approve or disapprove the resubmitted ordinance. Any resubmitted ordinance shall become effective upon approval. Should the Commission disapprove the resubmitted ordinance, it shall promptly resubmit the ordinance for reconsideration. Should the Commission fail to act within sixty days, the ordinance shall be deemed to be approved.
  (c) Commission land use ordinances
    (1) Within ninety days after making a determination that a county has failed to comply with the provisions of this section, the Commission shall make and publish a land use ordinance setting standard for the use of non-Federal lands in such county within the boundaries of the national scenic area, excluding urban areas identified in section 544b(e) of this title. The ordinance shall have the object of assuring that the use of such non-Federal lands is consistent with the management plan. The ordinance may differ amongst the several parcels of land within the boundaries of the scenic area. The ordinance may from time to time be amended by the Commission.
    (2) T4Subsequent ComplianceK.–In the event the Commission has promulgated regulations pursuant to this section, a county may thereafter upon written notice to the Commission elect to adopt a land use ordinance, in which event it shall comply with the provisions of this section for adoption of a land use ordinance. Upon approval of a land use ordinance by the Commission it shall supersede any regulations for the county developed by the Commission, subject to valid existing rights.
  (d) Construction of facilities
     The Secretary is hereby authorized to design, construct, operate and maintain such facilities as are included in the recreation assessment.
