   As used in this subchapter–
  (1) The term ””telephone-billed purchase““ means any purchase that is completed solely as a consequence of the completion of the call or a subsequent dialing, touch tone entry, or comparable action of the caller. Such term does not include–
    (A) a purchase by a caller pursuant to a preexisting agreement with the vendor;
    (B) local exchange telephone services or interexchange telephone services or any service that the Federal Communications Commission determines, by rule–
      (i) is closely related to the provision of local exchange telephone services or interexchange telephone services; and
      (ii) is subject to billing dispute resolution procedures required by Federal or State statute or regulation; or
    (C) the purchase of goods or services which is otherwise subject to billing dispute resolution procedures required by Federal statute or regulation.
  (2) A ””billing error““ consists of any of the following:
    (A) A reflection on a billing statement for a telephone-billed purchase which was not made by the customer or, if made, was not in the amount reflected on such statement.
    (B) A reflection on a billing statement of a telephone-billed purchase for which the customer requests additional clarification, including documentary evidence thereof.
    (C) A reflection on a billing statement of a telephone-billed purchase that was not accepted by the customer or not provided to the customer in accordance with the stated terms of the transaction.
    (D) A reflection on a billing statement of a telephone-billed purchase for a call made to an 800 or other toll free telephone number.
    (E) The failure to reflect properly on a billing statement a payment made by the customer or a credit issued to the customer with respect to a telephone-billed purchase.
    (F) A computation error or similar error of an accounting nature on a statement.
    (G) Failure to transmit the billing statement to the last known address of the customer, unless that address was furnished less than twenty days before the end of the billing cycle for which the statement is required.
    (H) Any other error described in regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 553 of title 5.
  (3) The term ””Commission““ means the Federal Trade Commission.
  (4) The term ””providing carrier““ means a local exchange or interexchange common carrier providing telephone services (other than local exchange services) to a vendor for a telephone-billed purchase that is the subject of a billing error complaint.
  (5) The term ””vendor““ means any person who, through the use of the telephone, offers goods or services for a telephone-billed purchase.
  (6) The term ””customer““ means any person who acquires or attempts to acquire goods or services in a telephone-billed purchase.
