  (a) Composition
     The Foundation shall be administered by a Board of Trustees that shall consist of 9 voting members, each of whom shall be a United States citizen and not a Federal officer. The Board shall be composed of–
    (1) individuals with expertise in agricultural conservation policy matters;
    (2) a representative of private sector organizations with a demonstrable interest in natural resources conservation;
    (3) a representative of statewide conservation organizations;
    (4) a representative of soil and water conservation districts;
    (5) a representative of organizations outside the Federal Government that are dedicated to natural resources conservation education; and
    (6) a farmer or rancher.
  (b) Nongovernmental employees
     Service as a member of the Board shall not constitute employment by, or the holding of, an office of the United States for the purposes of any Federal law.
  (c) Membership
    (1) Initial members
       The Secretary shall appoint 9 persons who meet the criteria established under subsection (a) of this section as the initial members of the Board and designate 1 of the members as the initial chairperson for a 2-year term.
    (2) Terms of office
      (A) In general
         A member of the Board shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that the members appointed to the initial Board shall serve, proportionately, for terms of 1, 2, and 3 years, as determined by the Secretary.
      (B) Limitation on terms
         No individual may serve more than 2 consecutive 3-year terms as a member of the Board.
    (3) Subsequent members
       The initial members of the Board shall adopt procedures in the constitution of the Foundation for the nomination and selection of subsequent members of the Board. The procedures shall require that each member, at a minimum, meets the criteria established under subsection (a) of this section and shall provide for the selection of an individual, who is not a Federal officer or a member of the Board.
  (d) Chairperson
     After the appointment of an initial chairperson under subsection (c)(1) of this section, each succeeding chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the members of the Board for a 2-year term.
  (e) Vacancies
     A vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Board not later than 60 days after the occurrence of the vacancy.
  (f) Compensation
     A member of the Board shall receive no compensation from the Foundation for the service of the member on the Board.
  (g) Travel expenses
     While away from the home or regular place of business of a member of the Board in the performance of services for the Board, the member shall be allowed travel expenses paid by the Foundation, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at the same rate as a person employed intermittently in the Government service is allowed under section 5703 of title 5.
