  (a) Findings
     Congress finds the following:
    (1) Organizational camps, such as those administered by the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and faith-based and community-based organizations, provide a valuable service to young people, individuals with a disability, and their families by promoting physical, mental, and spiritual health through activities conducted in a natural environment.
    (2) The 192,000,0000 \1\N acres of national forests and grasslands of the National Forest System managed for multiple uses by the Forest Service provides an ideal setting for such organizational camps.
    (3) The Federal Government should charge land use fees for the occupancy and use of National Forest System lands by such organizational camps that, while based on the fair market value of the land in use, also recognize the benefits provided to society by such organizational camps, do not preclude the ability of such organizational camps from utilizing these lands, and permit capital investment in, and maintenance of, camp facilities by such organizational camps or their sponsoring organizations.
    (4) Organizational camps should–
      (A) ensure that their facilities meet applicable building and safety codes, including fire and health codes;
      (B) have annual inspections as required by local law, including at a minimum inspections for fire and food safety; and
      (C) have in place safety plans that address fire and medical emergencies and encounters with wildlife.
  (b) Purpose
     It is the purpose of this chapter to establish a land use fee system that provides for an equitable return to the Federal Government for the occupancy and use of National Forest System lands by organizational camps that serve young people or individuals with a disability.
  (c) Definitions
     In this chapter:
    (1) The term ””organizational camp““ means a public or semipublic camp that–
      (A) is developed on National Forest System lands by a nonprofit organization or governmental entity;
      (B) provides a valuable service to the public by using such lands as a setting to introduce young people or individuals with a disability to activities that they may not otherwise experience and to educate them on natural resource issues; and
      (C) does not have as its primary purpose raising revenue through commercial activities.
    (2) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
    (3) The term ””individual with a disability““ has the meaning given the term in section 705(20) of title 29.
    (4) The term ””children at risk““ means children who are raised in poverty or in single-parent homes or are subject to such circumstances as parental drug abuse, homelessness, or child abuse.
    (5) The term ””change in control““ means–
      (A) for a corporation, the sale or transfer of a controlling interest in the corporation;
      (B) for a partnership or limited liability company, the sale or transfer of a controlling interest in the partnership or limited liability company; and
      (C) for an individual, the sale or transfer or an organizational camp subject to this chapter to another party.
