   For purposes of this chapter:
  (1) Boxer
     The term ””boxer““ means an individual who fights in a professional boxing match.
  (2) Boxing commission
    (A) \1\N The term ””boxing commission““ means an entity authorized under State law to regulate professional boxing matches.
  (3) Boxer registry
     The term ””boxer registry““ means any entity certified by the Association of Boxing Commissions for the purposes of maintaining records and identification of boxers.
  (4) Licensee
     The term ””licensee““ means an individual who serves as a trainer, second, or cut man for a boxer.
  (5) Manager
     The term ””manager““ means a person who receives compensation for service as an agent or representative of a boxer.
  (6) Matchmaker
     The term ””matchmaker““ means a person that proposes, selects, and arranges the boxers to participate in a professional boxing match.
  (7) Physician
     The term ””physician““ means a doctor of medicine legally authorized to practice medicine by the State in which the physician performs such function or action.
  (8) Professional boxing match
     The term ””professional boxing match““ means a boxing contest held in the United States between individuals for financial compensation. Such term does not include a boxing contest that is regulated by an amateur sports organization.
  (9) Promoter
     The term ””promoter““ means the person primarily responsible for organizing, promoting, and producing a professional boxing match. The term ””promoter““ does not include a hotel, casino, resort, or other commercial establishment hosting or sponsoring a professional boxing match unless–
    (A) the hotel, casino, resort, or other commercial establishment is primarily responsible for organizing, promoting, and producing the match; and
    (B) there is no other person primarily responsible for organizing, promoting, and producing the match.
  (10) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the 50 States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, and any territory or possession of the United States, including the Virgin Islands.
  (11) Effective date of the contract
     The term ””effective date of the contract““ means the day upon which a boxer becomes legally bound by the contract.
  (12) Boxing service provider
     The term ””boxing service provider““ means a promoter, manager, sanctioning body, licensee, or matchmaker.
  (13) Contract provision
     The term ””contract provision““ means any legal obligation between a boxer and a boxing service provider.
  (14) Sanctioning organization
     The term ””sanctioning organization““ means an organization that sanctions professional boxing matches in the United States–
    (A) between boxers who are residents of different States; or
    (B) that are advertised, otherwise promoted, or broadcast (including closed circuit television) in interstate commerce.
  (15) Suspension
     The term ””suspension““ includes within its meaning the revocation of a boxing license.
