  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the Multinational Species Conservation Fund a separate account to be known as the ””Great Ape Conservation Fund““, consisting of–
    (1) amounts transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit into the Fund under subsection (e) of this section;
    (2) amounts appropriated to the Fund under section 6305 of this title; and
    (3) any interest earned on investment of amounts in the Fund under subsection (c) of this section.
  (b) Expenditures from Fund
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2), upon request by the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer from the Fund to the Secretary, without further appropriation, such amounts as the Secretary determines are necessary to provide assistance under section 6303 of this title.
    (2) Administrative expenses
       Of the amounts in the account available for each fiscal year, the Secretary may expend not more than 3 percent, or up to $100,000, whichever is greater, to pay the administrative expenses necessary to carry out this chapter.
  (c) Investment of amounts
    (1) In general
       The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such portion of the Fund as is not, in the judgment of the Secretary of the Treasury, required to meet current withdrawals. Investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States.
    (2) Acquisition of obligations
       For the purpose of investments under paragraph (1), obligations may be acquired–
      (A) on original issue at the issue price; or
      (B) by purchase of outstanding obligations at the market price.
    (3) Sale of obligations
       Any obligation acquired by the Fund may be sold by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price.
    (4) Credits to Fund
       The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the Fund shall be credited to and form a part of the Fund.
  (d) Transfers of amounts
    (1) In general
       The amounts required to be transferred to the Fund under this section shall be transferred at least monthly from the general fund of the Treasury to the Fund on the basis of estimates made by the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (2) Adjustments
       Proper adjustment shall be made in amounts subsequently transferred to the extent prior estimates were in excess of or less than the amounts required to be transferred.
  (e) Acceptance and use of donations
     The Secretary may accept and use donations to provide assistance under section 6303 of this title. Amounts received by the Secretary in the form of donations shall be transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit into the Fund.
