   In this chapter:
  (1) Administrator
     The term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
  (2) Conservation
     The term ””conservation““ means the use of methods and procedures necessary to preserve or sustain corals and associated species as diverse, viable, and self-perpetuating coral reef ecosystems, including all activities associated with resource management, such as assessment, conservation, protection, restoration, sustainable use, and management of habitat; mapping; habitat monitoring; assistance in the development of management strategies for marine protected areas and marine resources consistent with the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.) and the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.); law enforcement; conflict resolution initiatives; community outreach and education; and that promote safe and ecologically sound navigation.
  (3) Coral
     The term ””coral““ means species of the phylum Cnidaria, including–
    (A) all species of the orders Antipatharia (black corals), Scleractinia (stony corals), Gorgonacea (horny corals), Stolonifera (organpipe corals and others), Alcyanacea (soft corals), and Coenothecalia (blue coral), of the class Anthozoa; and
    (B) all species of the order Hydrocorallina (fire corals and hydrocorals) of the class Hydrozoa.
  (4) Coral reef
     The term ””coral reef““ means any reefs or shoals composed primarily of corals.
  (5) Coral reef ecosystem
     The term ””coral reef ecosystem““ means coral and other species of reef organisms (including reef plants) associated with coral reefs, and the nonliving environmental factors that directly affect coral reefs, that together function as an ecological unit in nature.
  (6) Coral products
     The term ””coral products““ means any living or dead specimens, parts, or derivatives, or any product containing specimens, parts, or derivatives, of any species referred to in paragraph (3).
  (7) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Commerce.
  (8) State
     The term ””State““ means any State of the United States that contains a coral reef ecosystem within its seaward boundaries, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States, or separate sovereign in free association with the United States, that contains a coral reef ecosystem within its seaward boundaries.
