  (a) In general
     In accordance with the Implementation Plan, the Secretary shall develop an annual program of work for Federal land that gives priority to authorized hazardous fuel reduction projects that provide for the protection of at-risk communities or watersheds or that implement community wildfire protection plans.
  (b) Collaboration
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall consider recommendations under subsection (a) that are made by at-risk communities that have developed community wildfire protection plans.
    (2) Exemption
       The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the planning process and recommendations concerning community wildfire protection plans.
  (c) Administration
    (1) In general
       Federal agency involvement in developing a community wildfire protection plan, or a recommendation made in a community wildfire protection plan, shall not be considered a Federal agency action under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (2) Compliance
       In implementing authorized hazardous fuel reduction projects on Federal land, the Secretary shall, in accordance with section 6514 of this title, comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
  (d) Funding allocation
    (1) Federal land
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall use not less than 50 percent of the funds allocated for authorized hazardous fuel reduction projects in the wildland-urban interface.
      (B) Applicability and allocation
         The funding allocation in subparagraph (A) shall apply at the national level. The Secretary may allocate the proportion of funds differently than is required under subparagraph (A) within individual management units as appropriate, in particular to conduct authorized hazardous fuel reduction projects on land described in section 6512(a)(4) of this title.
      (C) Wildland-urban interface
         In the case of an authorized hazardous fuel reduction project for which a decision notice is issued during the 1-year period beginning on December 3, 2003, the Secretary shall use existing definitions of the term ””wildland-urban interface““ rather than the definition of that term provided under section 6511 of this title.
    (2) Non-Federal land
      (A) In general
         In providing financial assistance under any provision of law for hazardous fuel reduction projects on non-Federal land, the Secretary shall consider recommendations made by at-risk communities that have developed community wildfire protection plans.
      (B) Priority
         In allocating funding under this paragraph, the Secretary should, to the maximum extent practicable, give priority to communities that have adopted a community wildfire protection plan or have taken proactive measures to encourage willing property owners to reduce fire risk on private property.
