  (a) Implementation report
    (1) In general
       At the time at which the President submits to Congress a budget request for the Department of the Interior for fiscal year 2002, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report on the steps that have been taken to comply with this title \1\N and the amendments made by this title.\1\
    (2) Contents
       The report under paragraph (1) shall describe–
      (A) the extent to which compliance with this title \1\ and the amendments made by this title \1\ has required a reduction in the number of personnel assigned to administer, manage, and oversee the Federal Assistance Program for State Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration;
      (B) any revisions to this title \1\ or the amendments made by this title \1\ that would be desirable in order for the Secretary of the Interior to adequately administer the Program and ensure that funds provided to State agencies are properly used; and
      (C) any other information concerning the implementation of this title \1\ and the amendments made by this title \1\ that the Secretary of the Interior considers appropriate.
  (b) Projected spending report
     At the time at which the President submits a budget request for the Department of the Interior for fiscal year 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior shall report in writing to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate the amounts, broken down by category, that are intended to be used for the fiscal year under section 4(a)(1) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669c(a)(1)) and section 4(d)(1) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c(d)(1)).
  (c) Spending certification and report
     Not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary of the Interior shall certify and report in writing to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate–
    (1) the amounts, broken down by category, that were used for the fiscal year under section 4(a)(1) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669c(a)(1)) and section 4(d)(1) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c(d)(1));
    (2) the amounts apportioned to States for the fiscal year under section 4(a)(2) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669c(a)(2)) and section 4(d)(2)(A) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c(d)(2)(A));
    (3) the results of the audits performed under section 9(d) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669h(d) \2\N and section 9(d) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777h(d));
    (4) that all amounts used for the fiscal year under section 4(a)(1) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669c(a)(1)) and section 4(d)(1) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c(d)(1)) were necessary for expenses for administration incurred in implementation of those Acts;
    (5) that all amounts used for the fiscal year to administer those Acts by agency headquarters and by regional offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service were used in accordance with those Acts; and
    (6) that the Secretary of the Interior, the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks, the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs each properly discharged their duties under those Acts.
  (d) Certifications by States
    (1) In general
       Not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year, each State that received amounts apportioned under the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669 et seq.) or the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777 et seq.) for the fiscal year shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior in writing that the amounts were expended by the State in accordance with each of those Acts.
    (2) Transmission to Congress
       Not later than December 31 of a fiscal year, the Secretary of the Interior shall transmit all certifications under paragraph (1) for the previous fiscal year to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.
  (e) Limitation on delegation
     The Secretary of the Interior shall not delegate the responsibility for making a certification under subsection (c) of this section to any person except the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks.
