   In this chapter:
  (1) Adaptive ecosystem management
    (A) Definition
       The term ””adaptive ecosystem management““ means a natural resource management process under which planning, implementation, monitoring, research, evaluation, and incorporation of new knowledge are combined into a management approach that–
      (i) is based on scientific findings and the needs of society;
      (ii) treats management actions as experiments;
      (iii) acknowledges the complexity of these systems and scientific uncertainty; and
      (iv) uses the resulting new knowledge to modify future management methods and policy.
    (B) Clarification
       This paragraph shall not define the term ””adaptive ecosystem management““ for the purposes of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.).
  (2) Affected entities
     The term ””affected entities““ includes–
    (A) land managers;
    (B) stakeholders;
    (C) concerned citizens; and
    (D) the States of the interior West, including political subdivisions of the States.
  (3) Dry forest and woodland ecosystem
     The term ””dry forest and woodland ecosystem““ means an ecosystem that is dominated by ponderosa pines and associated dry forest and woodland types.
  (4) Institute
     The term ””Institute““ means an Institute established under section 6704(a) of this title.
  (5) Interior West
     The term ””interior West““ means the States of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, and Utah.
  (6) Land manager
    (A) In general
       The term ””land manager““ means a person or entity that practices or guides natural resource management.
    (B) Inclusions
       The term ””land manager““ includes a Federal, State, local, or tribal land management agency.
  (7) Restoration
     The term ””restoration““ means a process undertaken to move an ecosystem or habitat toward–
    (A) a sustainable structure of the ecosystem or habitat; or
    (B) a condition that supports a natural complement of species, natural function, or ecological process (such as a low-intensity fire).
  (8) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
  (9) Secretaries
     The term ””Secretaries““ means–
    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service; and
    (B) the Secretary of the Interior.
  (10) Stakeholder
     The term ””stakeholder““ means any person interested in or affected by management of forest or woodland ecosystems.
  (11) Subdominant trees
     Are trees that occur underneath the canopy or extend into the canopy but are smaller and less vigorous than dominant trees.
  (12) Overstocked stands
     Where the number of trees per acre exceeds the natural carrying capacity of the site.
  (13) Resilience
     The ability of a system to absorb disturbance without being pushed into a different, possibly less desirable stable state.
