   In this chapter:
  (1) Standard amenity recreation fee
     The term ””standard amenity recreation fee““ means the recreation fee authorized by section 6802(f) of this title.
  (2) Expanded amenity recreation fee
     The term ””expanded amenity recreation fee““ means the recreation fee authorized by section 6802(g) of this title.
  (3) Entrance fee
     The term ””entrance fee““ means the recreation fee authorized to be charged to enter onto lands managed by the National Park Service or the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
  (4) Federal land management agency
     The term ””Federal land management agency““ means the National Park Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the Forest Service.
  (5) Federal recreational lands and waters
     The term ””Federal recreational lands and waters““ means lands or waters managed by a Federal land management agency.
  (6) National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass
     The term ””National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass““ means the interagency national pass authorized by section 6804 of this title.
  (7) Passholder
     The term ””passholder““ means the person who is issued a recreation pass.
  (8) Recreation fee
     The term ””recreation fee““ means an entrance fee, standard amenity recreation fee, expanded amenity recreation fee, or special recreation permit fee.
  (9) Recreation pass
     The term ””recreation pass““ means the National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass or one of the other recreation passes available as authorized by section 6804 of this title.
  (10) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means–
    (A) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to a Federal land management agency (other than the Forest Service); and
    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to the Forest Service.
  (11) Secretaries
     The term ””Secretaries““ means the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture acting jointly.
  (12) Special account
     The term ””special account““ means the special account established in the Treasury under section 6806 of this title for a Federal land management agency.
  (13) Special recreation permit fee
     The term ””special recreation permit fee““ means the fee authorized by section 6802(h) of this title.
