  (a) Authority of Secretary
     Beginning in fiscal year 2005 and thereafter, the Secretary may establish, modify, charge, and collect recreation fees at Federal recreational lands and waters as provided for in this section.
  (b) Basis for recreation fees
     Recreation fees shall be established in a manner consistent with the following criteria:
    (1) The amount of the recreation fee shall be commensurate with the benefits and services provided to the visitor.
    (2) The Secretary shall consider the aggregate effect of recreation fees on recreation users and recreation service providers.
    (3) The Secretary shall consider comparable fees charged elsewhere and by other public agencies and by nearby private sector operators.
    (4) The Secretary shall consider the public policy or management objectives served by the recreation fee.
    (5) The Secretary shall obtain input from the appropriate Recreation Resource Advisory Committee, as provided in section 6803(d) of this title.
    (6) The Secretary shall consider such other factors or criteria as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
  (c) Special considerations
     The Secretary shall establish the minimum number of recreation fees and shall avoid the collection of multiple or layered recreation fees for similar uses, activities, or programs.
  (d) Limitations on recreation fees
    (1) Prohibition on fees for certain activities or services
       The Secretary shall not charge any standard amenity recreation fee or expanded amenity recreation fee for Federal recreational lands and waters administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the Forest Service, or the Bureau of Reclamation under this chapter for any of the following:
      (A) Solely for parking, undesignated parking, or picnicking along roads or trailsides.
      (B) For general access unless specifically authorized under this section.
      (C) For dispersed areas with low or no investment unless specifically authorized under this section.
      (D) For persons who are driving through, walking through, boating through, horseback riding through, or hiking through Federal recreational lands and waters without using the facilities and services.
      (E) For camping at undeveloped sites that do not provide a minimum number of facilities and services as described in subsection (g)(2)(A).
      (F) For use of overlooks or scenic pullouts.
      (G) For travel by private, noncommercial vehicle over any national parkway or any road or highway established as a part of the Federal-aid System, as defined in section 101 of title 23, which is commonly used by the public as a means of travel between two places either or both of which are outside any unit or area at which recreation fees are charged under this chapter.
      (H) For travel by private, noncommercial vehicle, boat, or aircraft over any road or highway, waterway, or airway to any land in which such person has any property right if such land is within any unit or area at which recreation fees are charged under this chapter.
      (I) For any person who has a right of access for hunting or fishing privileges under a specific provision of law or treaty.
      (J) For any person who is engaged in the conduct of official Federal, State, Tribal, or local government business.
      (K) For special attention or extra services necessary to meet the needs of the disabled.
    (2) Relation to fees for use of highways or roads
       An entity that pays a special recreation permit fee or similar permit fee shall not be subject to a road cost-sharing fee or a fee for the use of highways or roads that are open to private, noncommercial use within the boundaries of any Federal recreational lands or waters, as authorized under section 537 of this title.
    (3) Prohibition on fees for certain persons or places
       The Secretary shall not charge an entrance fee or standard amenity recreation fee for the following:
      (A) Any person under 16 years of age.
      (B) Outings conducted for noncommercial educational purposes by schools or bona fide academic institutions.
      (C) The U.S.S. Arizona Memorial, Independence National Historical Park, any unit of the National Park System within the District of Columbia, or Arlington House-Robert E. Lee National Memorial.
      (D) The Flight 93 National Memorial.
      (E) Entrance on other routes into the Great Smoky Mountains National Park or any part thereof unless fees are charged for entrance into that park on main highways and thoroughfares.
      (F) Entrance on units of the National Park System containing deed restrictions on charging fees.
      (G) An area or unit covered under section 203 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96–487; 16 U.S.C. 410hh–2), with the exception of Denali National Park and Preserve.
      (H) A unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System created, expanded, or modified by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96–487).
      (I) Any person who visits a unit or area under the jurisdiction of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and who has been issued a valid migratory bird hunting and conservation stamp issued under section 718b of this title.
      (J) Any person engaged in a nonrecreational activity authorized under a valid permit issued under any other Act, including a valid grazing permit.
    (4) No restriction on recreation opportunities
       Nothing in this chapter shall limit the use of recreation opportunities only to areas designated for collection of recreation fees.
  (e) Entrance fee
    (1) Authorized sites for entrance fees
       The Secretary of the Interior may charge an entrance fee for a unit of the National Park System, including a national monument administered by the National Park Service, or for a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System.
    (2) Prohibited sites
       The Secretary shall not charge an entrance fee for Federal recreational lands and waters managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the Forest Service.
  (f) Standard amenity recreation fee
     Except as limited by subsection (d), the Secretary may charge a standard amenity recreation fee for Federal recreational lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the Forest Service, but only at the following:
    (1) A National Conservation Area.
    (2) A National Volcanic Monument.
    (3) A destination visitor or interpretive center that provides a broad range of interpretive services, programs, and media.
    (4) An area–
      (A) that provides significant opportunities for outdoor recreation;
      (B) that has substantial Federal investments;
      (C) where fees can be efficiently collected; and
      (D) that contains all of the following amenities:
        (i) Designated developed parking.
        (ii) A permanent toilet facility.
        (iii) A permanent trash receptacle.
        (iv) Interpretive sign, exhibit, or kiosk.
        (v) Picnic tables.
        (vi) Security services.
  (g) Expanded amenity recreation fee
    (1) NPS and USFWS authority
       Except as limited by subsection (d), the Secretary of the Interior may charge an expanded amenity recreation fee, either in addition to an entrance fee or by itself, at Federal recreational lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service or the United States Fish and Wildlife Service when the Secretary of the Interior determines that the visitor uses a specific or specialized facility, equipment, or service.
    (2) Other Federal land management agencies
       Except as limited by subsection (d), the Secretary may charge an expanded amenity recreation fee, either in addition to a standard amenity fee or by itself, at Federal recreational lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, or the Bureau of Reclamation, but only for the following facilities or services:
      (A) Use of developed campgrounds that provide at least a majority of the following:
        (i) Tent or trailer spaces.
        (ii) Picnic tables.
        (iii) Drinking water.
        (iv) Access roads.
        (v) The collection of the fee by an employee or agent of the Federal land management agency.
        (vi) Reasonable visitor protection.
        (vii) Refuse containers.
        (viii) Toilet facilities.
        (ix) Simple devices for containing a campfire.
      (B) Use of highly developed boat launches with specialized facilities or services such as mechanical or hydraulic boat lifts or facilities, multi-lane paved ramps, paved parking, restrooms and other improvements such as boarding floats, loading ramps, or fish cleaning stations.
      (C) Rental of cabins, boats, stock animals, lookouts, historic structures, group day-use or overnight sites, audio tour devices, portable sanitation devices, binoculars or other equipment.
      (D) Use of hookups for electricity, cable, or sewer.
      (E) Use of sanitary dump stations.
      (F) Participation in an enhanced interpretive program or special tour.
      (G) Use of reservation services.
      (H) Use of transportation services.
      (I) Use of areas where emergency medical or first-aid services are administered from facilities staffed by public employees or employees under a contract or reciprocal agreement with the Federal Government.
      (J) Use of developed swimming sites that provide at least a majority of the following:
        (i) Bathhouse with showers and flush toilets.
        (ii) Refuse containers.
        (iii) Picnic areas.
        (iv) Paved parking.
        (v) Attendants, including lifeguards.
        (vi) Floats encompassing the swimming area.
        (vii) Swimming deck.
  (h) Special recreation permit fee
     The Secretary may issue a special recreation permit, and charge a special recreation permit fee in connection with the issuance of the permit, for specialized recreation uses of Federal recreational lands and waters, such as group activities, recreation events, motorized recreational vehicle use.
