  (a) Cooperation with banks and other financial institutions
     Wherever practicable the operations of a small business investment company, including the generation of business, may be undertaken in cooperation with banks or other investors or lenders, incorporated or unincorporated, and any servicing or initial investigation required for loans or acquisitions of securities by the company under the provisions of this chapter may be handled through such banks or other investors or lenders on a fee basis. Any small business investment company may receive fees for services rendered to such banks and other investors and lenders.
  (b) Use of advisory services; depository or fiscal agents; investment of funds
     Each small business investment company may make use, wherever practicable, of the advisory services of the Federal Reserve System and of the Department of Commerce which are available for and useful to industrial and commercial businesses, and may provide consulting and advisory services on a fee basis and have on its staff persons competent to provide such services. Any Federal Reserve bank is authorized to act as a depository or fiscal agent for any company operating under provisions of this chapter. Such companies with outstanding financings are authorized to invest funds not reasonably needed for their operations in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States, or in certificates of deposit maturing within one year or less, issued by any institution the accounts of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, or in savings accounts of such institutions.
  (c) Rules and regulations
     The Administration is authorized to prescribe regulations governing the operations of small business investment companies, and to carry out the provisions of this chapter, in accordance with the purposes of this chapter.
  (d) Forfeiture of rights, privileges, and franchises; jurisdiction
     Should any small business investment company violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or of regulations prescribed hereunder, all of its rights, privileges, and franchises derived therefrom may thereby be forfeited. Before any such company shall be declared dissolved, or its rights, privileges, and franchises forfeited, any noncompliance with or violation of this chapter shall be determined and adjudged by a court of the United States of competent jurisdiction in a suit brought for that purpose in the district, territory, or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, in which the principal office of such company is located. Any such suit shall be brought by the United States at the instance of the Administration or the Attorney General.
  (e) Liability of United States
     Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, nothing in this chapter or in any other provision of law shall be deemed to impose any liability on the United States with respect to any obligation entered into, or stocks issued, or commitments made, by any company operating under the provisions of this chapter.
  (f) Performance of functions, powers, and duties by Administration and Administrator
     In the performance of, and with respect to the functions, powers, and duties vested by this chapter, the Administrator and the Administration shall (in addition to any authority otherwise vested by this chapter) have the functions, powers, and duties set forth in the Small Business Act [15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.], and the provisions of sections 13 and 16 of that Act [15 U.S.C. 642, 645], insofar as applicable, are extended to the functions of the Administrator and the Administration under this chapter.
  (g) Annual report on Small Business Investment activities
    (1) The Administration shall include in its annual report, made pursuant to section 10(a) of the Small Business Act [15 U.S.C. 639(a)], a full and detailed account of its operations under this chapter. Such report shall set forth the amount of losses sustained by the Government as a result of such operations during the preceding fiscal year, together with an estimate of the total losses which the Government can reasonably expect to incur as a result of such operations during the then current fiscal year.
    (2) In its annual report for the year ending December 31, 1967, and in each succeeding annual report made pursuant to section 10(a) of the Small Business Act [15 U.S.C. 639(a)], the Administration shall include full and detailed accounts relative to the following matters:
      (A) The Administration“s recommendations with respect to the feasibility and organization of a small business capital bank to encourage private financing of small business investment companies to replace Government financing of such companies.
      (B) The Administration“s plans to insure the provision of small business investment company financing to all areas of the country and to all eligible small business concerns including steps taken to accomplish same.
      (C) Steps taken by the Administration to maximize recoupment of Government funds incident to the inauguration and administration of the small business investment company program and to insure compliance with statutory and regulatory standards relating thereto.
      (D) An accounting by the Office of Management and Budget with respect to Federal expenditures to business by executive agencies, specifying the proportion of said expenditures going to business concerns falling above and below small business size standards applicable to small business investment companies.
      (E) An accounting by the Treasury Department with respect to tax revenues accruing to the Government from business concerns, incorporated and unincorporated, specifying the source of such revenues by concerns falling above and below the small business size standards applicable to small business investment companies.
      (F) An accounting by the Treasury Department with respect to both tax losses and increased tax revenues related to small business investment company financing of both individual and corporate business taxpayers.
      (G) Recommendations of the Treasury Department with respect to additional tax incentives to improve and facilitate the operations of small business investment companies and to encourage the use of their financing facilities by eligible small business concerns.
      (H) A report from the Securities and Exchange Commission enumerating actions undertaken by that agency to simplify and minimize the regulatory requirements governing small business investment companies under the Federal securities laws and to eliminate overlapping regulation and jurisdiction as between the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Administration, and other agencies of the executive branch.
      (I) A report from the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to actions taken to facilitate and stabilize the access of small business concerns to the securities markets.
      (J) Actions undertaken by the Securities and Exchange Commission to simplify compliance by small business investment companies with the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a–1 et seq.] and to facilitate the election to be taxed as regulated investment companies pursuant to section 851 of title 26.
    (3) In its annual report for the year ending on December 31, 1993, and in each succeeding annual report made pursuant to section 10(a) of the Small Business Act [15 U.S.C. 639(a)], the Administration shall include a full and detailed description or account relating to–
      (A) the number of small business investment companies the Administration licensed, the number of licensees that have been placed in liquidation, and the number of licensees that have surrendered their licenses in the previous year, identifying the amount of government leverage each has received and the type of leverage instruments each has used;
      (B) the amount of government leverage that each licensee received in the previous year and the types of leverage instruments each licensee used;
      (C) for each type of financing instrument, the sizes, geographic locations, and other characteristics of the small business investment companies using them, including the extent to which the investment companies have used the leverage from each instrument to make small business loans, equity investments, or both; and
      (D) the frequency with which each type of investment instrument has been used in the current year and a comparison of the current year with previous years.
  (h) Certifications of eligibility
    (1) Certification by small business concern
       Prior to receiving financial assistance from a company licensed pursuant to section 681 of this title, a small business concern shall certify in writing that it meets the eligibility requirements of the Small Business Investment Company Program or the Specialized Small Business Investment Company Program, as applicable.
    (2) Certification by company
       Prior to providing financial assistance to a small business concern under this chapter, a company licensed pursuant to section 681 of this title shall certify in writing that it has reviewed the application for assistance of the small business concern and that all documentation and other information supports the eligibility of the applicant.
    (3) Retention of certifications
       Certificates made pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be retained by the company licensed pursuant to section 681 of this title for the duration of the financial assistance.
      (i) Interest rates
        (1) The purpose of this subsection is to facilitate the orderly and necessary flow of long-term loans and equity funds from small business investment companies to small business concerns.
        (2) In the case of a business loan, the small business investment company making such loan may charge interest on such loan at a rate which does not exceed the maximum rate prescribed by regulation by the Administration for loans made by any licensee (determined without regard to any State rate incorporated by such regulation).
        (3) A State law or constitutional provision shall be preempted for purposes of paragraph (2) with respect to any loan if such loan is made before the date, on or after April 1, 1980, on which such State adopts a law or certifies that the voters of such State have voted in favor of any provision, constitutional or otherwise, which states explicitly and by its terms that such State does not want the provisions of this subsection to apply with respect to loans made in such State, except that such State law or constitutional or other provision shall be preempted in the case of a loan made, on or after the date on which such law is adopted or such certification is made, pursuant to a commitment to make such loan which was entered into on or after April 1, 1980, and prior to the date on which such law is adopted or such certification is made.
        (4)          (A) If the maximum rate of interest authorized under paragraph (2) on any loan made by a small business investment company exceeds the rate which would be authorized by applicable State law if such State law were not preempted for purposes of this subsection, the charging of interest at any rate in excess of the rate authorized by paragraph (2) shall be deemed a forfeiture of the greater of (i) all interest which the loan carries with it, or (ii) all interest which has been agreed to be paid thereon.
          (B) In the case of any loan with respect to which there is a forfeiture of interest under subparagraph (A), the person who paid the interest may recover from a small business investment company making such loan an amount equal to twice the amount of the interest paid on such loan. Such interest may be recovered in a civil action commenced in a court of appropriate jurisdiction not later than two years after the most recent payment of interest.
