  (a) In general
    (1) Authority
       In accordance with this section, the Administrator may make grants to New Markets Venture Capital companies and to other entities, as authorized by this part, to provide operational assistance to smaller enterprises financed, or expected to be financed, by such companies or other entities.
    (2) Terms
       Grants made under this subsection shall be made over a multiyear period not to exceed 10 years, under such other terms as the Administrator may require.
    (3) Grants to specialized small business investment companies
      (A) Authority
         In accordance with this section, the Administrator may make grants to specialized small business investment companies to provide operational assistance to smaller enterprises financed, or expected to be financed, by such companies after the effective date of the New Markets Venture Capital Program Act of 2000.
      (B) Use of funds
         The proceeds of a grant made under this paragraph may be used by the company receiving such grant only to provide operational assistance in connection with an equity investment (made with capital raised after the effective date of the New Markets Venture Capital Program Act of 2000) in a business located in a low-income geographic area.
      (C) Submission of plans
         A specialized small business investment company shall be eligible for a grant under this section only if the company submits to the Administrator, in such form and manner as the Administrator may require, a plan for use of the grant.
    (4) Grant amount
      (A) New Markets Venture Capital companies
         The amount of a grant made under this subsection to a New Markets Venture Capital company shall be equal to the resources (in cash or in kind) raised by the company under section 689c(d)(2) of this title.
      (B) Other entities
         The amount of a grant made under this subsection to any entity other than a New Markets Venture Capital company shall be equal to the resources (in cash or in kind) raised by the entity in accordance with the requirements applicable to New Market Venture Capital companies set forth in section 689c(d)(2) of this title.
    (5) Pro rata reductions
       If the amount made available to carry out this section is insufficient for the Administrator to provide grants in the amounts provided for in paragraph (4), the Administrator shall make pro rata reductions in the amounts otherwise payable to each company and entity under such paragraph.
  (b) Supplemental grants
    (1) In general
       The Administrator may make supplemental grants to New Markets Venture Capital companies and to other entities, as authorized by this part under such terms as the Administrator may require, to provide additional operational assistance to smaller enterprises financed, or expected to be financed, by the companies.
    (2) Matching requirement
       The Administrator may require, as a condition of any supplemental grant made under this subsection, that the company or entity receiving the grant provide from resources (in a \1\N cash or in kind), other then those provided by the Administrator, a matching contribution equal to the amount of the supplemental grant.
  (c) Limitation
     None of the assistance made available under this section may be used for any overhead or general and administrative expense of a New Markets Venture Capital company or a specialized small business investment company.
