  (a) In general
     The United States shall be represented on the Commission by 5 United States Commissioners. The President shall appoint individuals to serve on the Commission at the pleasure of the President. In making the appointments, the President shall select Commissioners from among individuals who are knowledgeable or experienced concerning highly migratory fish stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean, one of whom shall be an officer or employee of the Department of Commerce, and one of whom shall be the chairman or a member of the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council, and one of whom shall be the chairman or a member of the Pacific Fishery Management Council. The Commissioners shall be entitled to adopt such rules of procedures as they find necessary and to select a chairman from among members who are officers or employees of the United States Government.
  (b) Alternate Commissioners
     The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary, may designate from time to time and for periods of time deemed appropriate Alternate United States Commissioners to the Commission. Any Alternate United States Commissioner may exercise at any meeting of the Commission, Council, any Panel, or the advisory committee established pursuant to subsection (d), all powers and duties of a United States Commissioner in the absence of any Commissioner appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section for whatever reason. The number of such Alternate United States Commissioners that may be designated for any such meeting shall be limited to the number of United States Commissioners appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section who will not be present at such meeting.
  (c) Administrative matters
    (1) Employment status
       Individuals serving as such Commissioners, other than officers or employees of the United States Government, shall not be considered Federal employees except for the purposes of injury compensation or tort claims liability as provided in chapter 81 of title 5 and chapter 171 of title 28.
    (2) Compensation
       The United States Commissioners or Alternate Commissioners, although officers of the United States while so serving, shall receive no compensation for their services as such Commissioners or Alternate Commissioners.
    (3) Travel expenses
      (A) The Secretary of State shall pay the necessary travel expenses of United States Commissioners and Alternate United States Commissioners in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations and sections 5701, 5702, 5704 through 5708, and 5731 of title 5.
      (B) The Secretary may reimburse the Secretary of State for amounts expended by the Secretary of State under this subsection.
  (d) Advisory committees
    (1) Establishment of permanent advisory committee
      (A) Membership
         There is established an advisory committee which shall be composed of–
        (i) not less than 15 nor more than 20 individuals appointed by the Secretary of Commerce in consultation with the United States Commissioners, who shall select such individuals from the various groups concerned with the fisheries covered by the WCPFC Convention, providing, to the maximum extent practicable, an equitable balance among such groups;
        (ii) the chair of the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council“s Advisory Committee or the chair“s designee; and
        (iii) officials of the fisheries management authorities of American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands (or their designees).
      (B) Terms and privileges
         Each member of the advisory committee appointed under subparagraph (A) shall serve for a term of 2 years and shall be eligible for reappointment. The advisory committee shall be invited to attend all non-executive meetings of the United States Commissioners and at such meetings shall be given opportunity to examine and to be heard on all proposed programs of investigation, reports, recommendations, and regulations of the Commission.
      (C) Procedures
         The advisory committee established by subparagraph (A) shall determine its organization, and prescribe its practices and procedures for carrying out its functions under this chapter,\1\N the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), and the WCPFC Convention. The advisory committee shall publish and make available to the public a statement of its organization, practices, and procedures. A majority of the members of the advisory committee shall constitute a quorum. Meetings of the advisory committee, except when in executive session, shall be open to the public, and prior notice of meetings shall be made public in a timely fashion.\2\N and the advisory committee shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
      (D) Provision of information
         The Secretary and the Secretary of State shall furnish the advisory committee with relevant information concerning fisheries and international fishery agreements.
    (2) Administrative matters
      (A) Support services
         The Secretary shall provide to advisory committees in a timely manner such administrative and technical support services as are necessary for their effective functioning.
      (B) Compensation; status; expenses
         Individuals appointed to serve as a member of an advisory committee–
        (i) shall serve without pay, but while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the advisory committee shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5; and
        (ii) shall not be considered Federal employees except for the purposes of injury compensation or tort claims liability as provided in chapter 81 of title 5 and chapter 171 of title 28.
  (f) \3\N Memorandum of understanding
     For highly migratory species in the Pacific, the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall develop a memorandum of understanding with the Western Pacific, Pacific, and North Pacific Fishery Management Councils, that clarifies the role of the relevant Council or Councils with respect to–
    (1) participation in United States delegations to international fishery organizations in the Pacific Ocean, including government-to-government consultations;
    (2) providing formal recommendations to the Secretary and the Secretary of State regarding necessary measures for both domestic and foreign vessels fishing for these species;
    (3) coordinating positions with the United States delegation for presentation to the appropriate international fishery organization; and
    (4) recommending those domestic fishing regulations that are consistent with the actions of the international fishery organization, for approval and implementation under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.)
