  (a) In general
     The Preserve shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with sections 698q to 698t of this title and in accordance with the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including–
    (1) sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title; and
    (2) sections 461 to 467 of this title.
  (b) Hunting and fishing
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary shall permit hunting, trapping, and fishing on lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the Secretary within the Preserve in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws.
    (2) Time and place restrictions
       Subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers necessary in furtherance of sections 698q to 698t of this title, and after consultation with the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources of the State of Alabama and owners of lands adjacent to the Preserve, the Secretary may designate zones where, and establish periods when, the activities described in paragraph (1) will not be permitted within the Preserve for reasons of public safety, administration, fish and wildlife habitat, or public use and enjoyment.
    (3) Restrictions in boundary areas
       After consultation with the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources of the State of Alabama and with the owners of lands adjacent to the Preserve, the Secretary may restrict hunting in areas within the Preserve that are adjacent to the boundaries of the Preserve where the restriction is necessary or appropriate to protect public safety.
    (4) Congressional intent
       Nothing in sections 698q to 698t of this title is intended to affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State of Alabama with respect to fish and wildlife.
  (c) Water resources projects
     Subsection (a) of section 1278 of this title shall apply to that portion of the Little River that flows through the Preserve in the same manner and to the same extent as such subsection applies to the rivers referred to in such subsection. The application of such subsection to the Preserve shall not affect any determination of the value of the lands, waters, or interests in lands and waters within the boundaries of the Preserve.
  (d) Cooperative agreements with State
    (1) Law enforcement and fire prevention
       In administering the Preserve, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the State of Alabama, or any political subdivision of the State, for the rendering of–
      (A) rescue, fire fighting, and law enforcement services; and
      (B) cooperative assistance by law enforcement and fire preventive agencies located in the vicinity of the Preserve.
    (2) Preparation of management plan
       To facilitate the purposes of this section, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the State of Alabama and directly affected political subdivisions of the State to provide professional assistance in the preparation of the management plan for the Preserve.
  (e) DeSoto State Park
     If lands within DeSoto State Park are acquired by the Secretary, at the request of the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources of the State of Alabama, the Secretary shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the Department for the continued management by the Department of the lodge and other facilities that, as of October 21, 1992, are part of DeSoto State Park. The cooperative agreement shall provide for the management and operation of the lodge and facilities in a manner that, to the maximum extent practicable, is consistent with similar operations elsewhere in the National Park System.
  (f) Public involvement
    (1) Public awareness and participation program
       The Secretary shall develop and conduct a program to promote and encourage awareness of and participation in the development of the general management plan for the Preserve by persons owning property in the vicinity of the Preserve, other interested groups and individuals, State, county, and municipal agencies, and the general public. Prior to final approval of the plan, the Secretary shall hold public meetings in DeKalb and Cherokee Counties.
    (2) Consideration of public comment
       In preparing and implementing the plan described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give full consideration to the views and comments of the individuals, groups, and agencies described in paragraph (1).
  (g) Green Pitcher Plant
     Upon the transfer by Alabama Power Company to the United States of any lands within the boundaries of the Preserve that contain the Green Pitcher Plant (Sarracenia oreophila), all rights and obligations of Alabama Power Company under the agreement entered into between the company and the Department of the Interior (including the United States Fish and Wildlife Service) on May 12, 1983, in settlement of the action brought on September 24, 1980, against the Secretary and the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (Civil Action No. CV 80–C–1242–M), shall be extinguished.
