   All moneys received for such stamps shall be accounted for by the Postal Service or the Department of the Interior, whichever is appropriate, and paid into the Treasury of the United States, and shall be reserved and set aside as a special fund to be known as the migratory bird conservation fund, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior. All moneys received into such fund are appropriated for the following objects and shall be available therefor until expended:
  (a) Advance allotments to Postal Service
     So much as may be necessary shall be used by the Secretary of the Interior to make advance allotments to the Postal Service at such times and in such amounts as may be mutually agreed upon by the Secretary of the Interior and the Postal Service for direct expenditure by the Postal Service for engraving, printing, issuing, selling, and accounting for migratory bird hunting stamps and moneys received from the sale thereof, in addition to expenses for personal services in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and such other expenses as may be necessary in executing the duties and functions required of the Postal Service.
  (b) Acquisition of bird refuges
     Except as authorized in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the remainder shall be available for the location, ascertainment, and acquisition of suitable areas for migratory bird refuges under the provisions of the Migratory Bird Conservation Act [16 U.S.C. 715 et seq.] and for the administrative costs incurred in the acquisition of such areas.
  (c) Waterfowl Production Areas
     The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to utilize funds made available under subsection (b) of this section for the purposes of such subsection, and such other funds as may be appropriated for the purposes of such subsection, or of this subsection, to acquire, or defray the expense incident to the acquisition by gift, devise, lease, purchase, or exchange of, small wetland and pothole areas, interests therein, and rights-of-way to provide access thereto. Such small areas, to be designated as ””Waterfowl Production Areas““, may be acquired without regard to the limitations and requirements of the Migratory Bird Conservation Act [16 U.S.C. 715 et seq.], but all of the provisions of such Act which govern the administration and protection of lands acquired thereunder, except the inviolate sanctuary provisions of such Act, shall be applicable to areas acquired pursuant to this subsection.
  (d) Promotion of stamp sales
    (1) The Secretary of the Interior may utilize funds from the sale of migratory bird hunting and conservation stamps, not to exceed $1,000,000 in each of fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, for the promotion of additional sales of those stamps, in accordance with a Migratory Bird Conservation Commission approved annual marketing plan. Such promotion shall include the preparation of reports, brochures, or other appropriate materials to be made available to the public that describe the benefits to wildlife derived from stamp sales.
    (2) The Secretary of the Interior shall include in each annual report of the Commission under section 715b \1\N of this title a description of activities conducted under this subsection in the year covered by the report.
