  (a) In general
     For each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011, the balance of each annual appropriation made in accordance with the provisions of section 777b of this title remaining after the distributions for administrative expenses and other purposes under subsection (b) and for multistate conservation grants under section 777m of this title shall be distributed as follows:
    (1) Coastal wetlands
       An amount equal to 18.5 percent to the Secretary of the Interior for distribution as provided in the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection,\1\N and Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 3951 et seq.).
    (2) Boating safety
       An amount equal to 18.5 percent to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating for State recreational boating safety programs under section 13107 of title 46.
    (3) Clean Vessel Act
       An amount equal to 2.0 percent to the Secretary of the Interior for qualified projects under section 5604(c) of the Clean Vessel Act of 1992 (33 U.S.C. 1322 note).
    (4) Boating infrastructure
       An amount equal to 2.0 percent to the Secretary of the Interior for obligation for qualified projects under section 777g–1(d) of this title.
    (5) National outreach and communications
       An amount equal to 2.0 percent to the Secretary of the Interior for the National Outreach and Communications Program under section 777g(d) of this title. Such amounts shall remain available for 3 fiscal years, after which any portion thereof that is unobligated by the Secretary for that program may be expended by the Secretary under subsection (c) of this section.
  (b) Set-aside for expenses for administration of this chapter
    (1) In general
      (A) Set-aside for administration
         From the annual appropriation made in accordance with section 777b of this title, for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011, the Secretary of the Interior may use no more than the amount specified in subparagraph (B) for the fiscal year for expenses for administration incurred in the implementation of this chapter, in accordance with this section and section 777h of this title. The amount specified in subparagraph (B) for a fiscal year may not be included in the amount of the annual appropriation distributed under subsection (a) of this section for the fiscal year.
      (B) Available amounts
         The available amount referred to in subparagraph (A) is–
        (i) for each of fiscal years 2001 and 2002, $9,000,000;
        (ii) for fiscal year 2003, $8,212,000; and
        (iii) for fiscal year 2004 and each fiscal year thereafter, the sum of–
          (I) the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and
          (II) the amount determined by multiplying–
            (aa) the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and
            (bb) the change, relative to the preceding fiscal year, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor.
    (2) Period of availability; apportionment of unobligated amounts
      (A) Period of availability
         For each fiscal year, the available amount under paragraph (1) shall remain available for obligation for use under that paragraph until the end of the fiscal year.
      (B) Apportionment of unobligated amounts
         Not later than 60 days after the end of a fiscal year, the Secretary of the Interior shall apportion among the States any of the available amount under paragraph (1) that remains unobligated at the end of the fiscal year, on the same basis and in the same manner as other amounts made available under this chapter are apportioned among the States under subsection (e) \2\N of this section for the fiscal year.
  (c) Apportionment among States
     The Secretary \3\N after the distribution, transfer, use and deduction under subsection (b) of this section, and after deducting amounts used for grants under section 777m of this title, shall apportion 57 percent of the balance of each such annual appropriation among the several States in the following manner: 40 percent in the ratio which the area of each State including coastal and Great Lakes waters (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) bears to the total area of all the States, and 60 percent in the ratio which the number of persons holding paid licenses to fish for sport or recreation in the State in the second fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which such apportionment is made, as certified to said Secretary by the State fish and game departments, bears to the number of such persons in all the States. Such apportionments shall be adjusted equitably so that no State shall receive less than 1 percent nor more than 5 percent of the total amount apportioned. Where the apportionment to any State under this section is less than $4,500 annually, the Secretary of the Interior may allocate not more than $4,500 of said appropriation to said State to carry out the purposes of this chapter when said State certifies to the Secretary of the Interior that it has set aside not less than $1,500 from its fish-and-game funds or has made, through its legislature, an appropriation in this amount of said purposes.
  (d) Unallocated funds
     So much of any sum not allocated under the provisions of this section for any fiscal year is hereby authorized to be made available for expenditure to carry out the purposes of this chapter until the close of the succeeding fiscal year. The term fiscal year as used in this section shall be a period of twelve consecutive months from October 1 through the succeeding September 30, except that the period for enumeration of persons holding licenses to fish shall be a State“s fiscal or license year.
  (e) Expenses for administration of certain programs
    (1) In general
       For each fiscal year, of the amounts appropriated under section 777b of this title, the Secretary of the Interior shall use only funds authorized for use under paragraphs (1), (3), (4), and (5) of subsection (a) of this section to pay the expenses for administration incurred in carrying out the provisions of law referred to in those subsections,\4\N respectively.
    (2) Maximum amount
       For each fiscal year, the Secretary of the Interior may use not more than $900,000 in accordance with paragraph (1).
  (f) Transfer of certain funds
     Amounts available under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a) of this section that are unobligated by the Secretary of the Interior after 3 fiscal years shall be transferred to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating and shall be expended for State recreational boating safety programs under section 13107(a) of title 46.
