  (a) Duty of States; status of projects; title to property
     To maintain fish-restoration and management projects established under the provisions of this chapter shall be the duty of the States according to their respective laws. Beginning July 1, 1953, maintenance of projects heretofore completed under the provisions of this chapter may be considered as projects under this chapter. Title to any real or personal property acquired by any State, and to improvements placed on State-owned lands through the use of funds paid to the State under the provisions of this chapter, shall be vested in such State.
  (b) Funding requirements
    (1) Each State shall allocate 15 percent of the funds apportioned to it for each fiscal year under section 777c of this title for the payment of up to 75 per centum of the costs of the acquisition, development, renovation, or improvement of facilities (and auxiliary facilities necessary to insure the safe use of such facilities) that create, or add to, public access to the waters of the United States to improve the suitability of such waters for recreational boating purposes. Notwithstanding this provision, States within a United States Fish and Wildlife Service Administrative Region may allocate more or less than 15 percent in a fiscal year, provided that the total regional allocation averages 15 percent over a 5 year period.
    (2) So much of the funds that are allocated by a State under paragraph (1) in any fiscal year that remained unexpended or unobligated at the close of such year are authorized to be made available for the purposes described in paragraph (1) during the succeeding four fiscal years, but any portion of such funds that remain unexpended or unobligated at the close of such period are authorized to be made available for expenditure by the Secretary of the Interior in carrying out the research program of the Fish and Wildlife Service in respect to fish of material value for sport or recreation.
  (c) Aquatic resource education program; funding, etc.
     Each State may use not to exceed 15 percent of the funds apportioned to it under section 777c of this title to pay up to 75 per centum of the costs of an aquatic resource education and outreach and communications program for the purpose of increasing public understanding of the Nation“s water resources and associated aquatic life forms. The non-Federal share of such costs may not be derived from other Federal grant programs. The Secretary shall issue not later than the one hundred and twentieth day after the effective date of this subsection such regulations as he deems advisable regarding the criteria for such programs.
  (d) National Outreach and Communications Program
    (1) Implementation
       Within 1 year after June 9, 1998, the Secretary of the Interior shall develop and implement, in cooperation and consultation with the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council, a national plan for outreach and communications.
    (2) Content
       The plan shall provide–
      (A) guidance, including guidance on the development of an administrative process and funding priorities, for outreach and communications programs; and
      (B) for the establishment of a national program.
    (3) Secretary may match or fund programs
       Under the plan, the Secretary may obligate amounts available under subsection (c) or (d) of section 777c of this title–
      (A) to make grants to any State or private entity to pay all or any portion of the cost of carrying out any outreach and communications program under the plan; or
      (B) to fund contracts with States or private entities to carry out such a program.
    (4) Review
       The plan shall be reviewed periodically, but not less frequently than once every 3 years.
  (e) State outreach and communications program
     Within 12 months after the completion of the national plan under subsection (d)(1) of this section, a State shall develop a plan for an outreach and communications program and submit it to the Secretary. In developing the plan, a State shall–
    (1) review the national plan developed under subsection (d) of this section;
    (2) consult with anglers, boaters, the sportfishing and boating industries, and the general public; and
    (3) establish priorities for the State outreach and communications program proposed for implementation.
  (f) Pumpout stations and waste reception facilities
     Amounts apportioned to States under section 777c of this title may be used to pay not more than 75 percent of the costs of constructing, renovating, operating, or maintaining pumpout stations and waste reception facilities (as those terms are defined in the Clean Vessel Act of 1992).
  (g) Surveys
    (1) National framework
       Within 6 months after June 9, 1998, the Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall adopt a national framework for a public boat access needs assessment which may be used by States to conduct surveys to determine the adequacy, number, location, and quality of facilities providing access to recreational waters for all sizes of recreational boats.
    (2) State surveys
       Within 18 months after June 9, 1998, each State that agrees to conduct a public boat access needs survey following the recommended national framework shall report its findings to the Secretary for use in the development of a comprehensive national assessment of recreational boat access needs and facilities.
    (3) Exception
       Paragraph (2) does not apply to a State if, within 18 months after June 9, 1998, the Secretary certifies that the State has developed and is implementing a plan that ensures there are and will be public boat access adequate to meet the needs of recreational boaters on its waters.
    (4) Funding
       A State that conducts a public boat access needs survey under paragraph (2) may fund the costs of conducting that assessment out of amounts allocated to it as funding dedicated to motorboat access to recreational waters under subsection (b)(1) of this section.
