  (a) Method of registration
     Any security may be registered with the Commission under the terms and conditions hereinafter provided, by filing a registration statement in triplicate, at least one of which shall be signed by each issuer, its principal executive officer or officers, its principal financial officer, its comptroller or principal accounting officer, and the majority of its board of directors or persons performing similar functions (or, if there is no board of directors or persons performing similar functions, by the majority of the persons or board having the power of management of the issuer), and in case the issuer is a foreign or Territorial person by its duly authorized representative in the United States; except that when such registration statement relates to a security issued by a foreign government, or political subdivision thereof, it need be signed only by the underwriter of such security. Signatures of all such persons when written on the said registration statements shall be presumed to have been so written by authority of the person whose signature is so affixed and the burden of proof, in the event such authority shall be denied, shall be upon the party denying the same. The affixing of any signature without the authority of the purported signer shall constitute a violation of this subchapter. A registration statement shall be deemed effective only as to the securities specified therein as proposed to be offered.
  (b) Registration fee
    (1) Recovery of cost of services
       The Commission shall, in accordance with this subsection, collect registration fees that are designed to recover the costs to the government of the securities registration process, and costs related to such process, including enforcement activities, policy and rulemaking activities, administration, legal services, and international regulatory activities.
    (2) Fee payment required
       At the time of filing a registration statement, the applicant shall pay to the Commission a fee that shall be equal to the sum of the amounts (if any) determined under the rates established by paragraphs (3) and (4). The Commission shall publish in the Federal Register notices of the fee rates applicable under this section for each fiscal year.
    (3) General revenue fees
       The rate determined under this paragraph is a rate equal to $200 per $1,000,000 of the maximum aggregate price at which such securities are proposed to be offered, except that during fiscal year 2007 and any succeeding fiscal year such rate is equal to $67 per $1,000,000 of the maximum aggregate price at which such securities are proposed to be offered. Fees collected during any fiscal year pursuant to this paragraph shall be deposited and credited as general revenues of the Treasury.
    (4) Offsetting collection fees
      (A) In general
         Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the rate determined under this paragraph is a rate equal to the following amount per $1,000,000 of the maximum aggregate price at which such securities are proposed to be offered:
        (i) $95 during fiscal year 1998;
        (ii) $78 during fiscal year 1999;
        (iii) $64 during fiscal year 2000;
        (iv) $50 during fiscal year 2001;
        (v) $39 during fiscal year 2002;
        (vi) $28 during fiscal year 2003;
        (vii) $9 during fiscal year 2004;
        (viii) $5 during fiscal year 2005; and
        (ix) $0 during fiscal year 2006 or any succeeding fiscal year.
      (B) Limitation; deposit
         Except as provided in subparagraph (C), no amounts shall be collected pursuant to this paragraph (4) for any fiscal year except to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts. Fees collected during any fiscal year pursuant to this paragraph shall be deposited and credited as offsetting collections in accordance with appropriations Acts.
      (C) Lapse of appropriations
         If on the first day of a fiscal year a regular appropriation to the Commission has not been enacted, the Commission shall continue to collect fees (as offsetting collections) under this paragraph at the rate in effect during the preceding fiscal year, until such a regular appropriation is enacted.
    (5) Pro rata application of rates
       The rates required by this subsection shall be applied pro rata to amounts and balances equal to less than $1,000,000.
  (c) Time registration effective
     The filing with the Commission of a registration statement, or of an amendment to a registration statement, shall be deemed to have taken place upon the receipt thereof, but the filing of a registration statement shall not be deemed to have taken place unless it is accompanied by a United States postal money order or a certified bank check or cash for the amount of the fee required under subsection (b) of this section.
  (d) Information available to public
     The information contained in or filed with any registration statement shall be made available to the public under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe, and copies thereof, photostatic or otherwise, shall be furnished to every applicant at such reasonable charge as the Commission may prescribe.
