  (a) Distribution of low sulfur fuel
     Any allocation program provided for in section 792 of this title or in the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 [15 U.S.C. 751 et seq.],\1\N shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include measures to assure that available low sulfur fuel will be distributed on a priority basis to those areas of the United States designated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency as requiring low sulfur fuel to avoid or minimize adverse impact on public health.
  (b) Study of chronic effects of sulfur oxide emissions among exposed populations
     In order to determine the health effects of emissions of sulfur oxides to the air resulting from any conversions to burning coal to which section 119 \1\ of the Clean Air Act [42 U.S.C. 1857c–10] applies, the Department of Health and Human Services shall, through the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences and in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency, conduct a study of chronic effects among exposed populations. The sum of $3,500,000 is authorized to be appropriated for such a study. In order to assure that long-term studies can be conducted without interruption, such sums as are appropriated shall be available until expended.
  (c) Major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment
    (1) No action taken under the Clean Air Act [42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.] shall be deemed a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.].
    (2) No action under section 792 of this title for a period of one year after initiation of such action shall be deemed a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.]. However, before any action under section 792 of this title that has a significant impact on the environment is taken, if practicable, or in any event within sixty days after such action is taken, an environmental evaluation with analysis equivalent to that required under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act [42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)], to the greatest extent practicable within this time constraint, shall be prepared and circulated to appropriate Federal, State, and local government agencies and to the public for a thirty-day comment period after which a public hearing shall be held upon request to review outstanding environmental issues. Such an evaluation shall not be required where the action in question has been preceded by compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act by the appropriate Federal agency. Any action taken under section 792 of this title which will be in effect for more than a one-year period or any action to extend an action taken under section 792 of this title to a total period of more than one year shall be subject to the full provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act, notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter.
  (d) Importation of hydroelectric energy
     In order to expedite the prompt construction of facilities for the importation of hydroelectric energy thereby helping to reduce the shortage of petroleum products in the United States, the Federal Power Commission is hereby authorized and directed to issue a Presidential permit pursuant to Executive Order 10485 of September 3, 1953, for the construction, operation, maintenance, and connection of facilities for the transmission of electric energy at the borders of the United States without preparing an environmental impact statement pursuant to section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4332] for facilities for the transmission of electric energy between Canada and the United States in the vicinity of Fort Covington, New York.
