  (a) Boundaries; maps; maximum acreage
    (1) The Redwood National Park consists of the land generally depicted on the map entitled ””Redwood National Park, Revised Boundary““, numbered 167/60502, and dated February, 2003.
    (2) The map referred to in paragraph (1) shall be–
      (A) on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service; and
      (B) provided by the Secretary of the Interior to the appropriate officers of Del Norte and Humboldt Counties, California.
    (3) The Secretary; \1\N of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ””Secretary““) may from time to time, with a view to carrying out the purpose of this subchapter and with particular attention to minimizing siltation of the streams, damage to the timber, and assuring the preservation of the scenery within the boundaries of the national park as depicted on said maps, modify said boundaries, giving notice of any changes involved therein by publication of a revised drawing or boundary description in the Federal Register and by filing said revision with the officers with whom the original maps were filed, but the acreage within said park shall at no time exceed 133,000 acres, exclusive of submerged lands and publicly owned highways and roads.
  (b) Highways and roads
     The Secretary is authorized to acquire all or part of existing publicly owned highways and roads within the boundaries of the park as he may deem necessary for park purposes. Until such highways and roads have been acquired, the Secretary may cooperate with appropriate State and local officials in patroling \2\N and maintaining such roads and highways.
  (c) Park protection zone
     Within the area outside the boundaries of Redwood National Park indicated as the ””Park Protection Zone““ on the map entitled ””Proposed Additions, Redwood National Park, California““, numbered 167–80005–D and dated March 1978, the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and interests in land: T3ProvidedK, That lands may be acquired from a willing seller or upon a finding by the Secretary that failure to acquire all or a portion of such lands could result in physical damage to park resources and following notice to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives. Any lands so acquired shall be managed in a manner which will maximize the protection of the resources of Redwood National Park, and in accordance with the Act of October 21, 1976 (90 Stat. 2473) [43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.]. Acquisition of a parcel of land under the authority of this subsection shall not as a result of such acquisition diminish the right of owners of adjacent lands to the peaceful use and enjoyment of their land and shall not confer authority upon the Secretary to acquire additional lands except as provided in this subsection.
