  (a) Composition of board; appointment and designation
     The board of directors of the Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the ””board““) shall be composed of three members, to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. In appointing the members of the board, the President shall designate the chairman. All other officials, agents, and employees shall be designated and selected by the board.
  (b) Terms of office; successors
     The terms of office of the members first taking office after May 18, 1933, shall expire as designated by the President at the time of nomination, one at the end of the third year, one at the end of the sixth year, and one at the end of the ninth year, after May 18, 1933. A successor to a member of the board shall be appointed in the same manner as the original members and shall have a term of office expiring nine years from the date of the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed.
  (c) Vacancies
     Any member appointed to fill a vacancy in the board occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term.
  (d) Quorums
     Vacancies in the board, so long as there shall be two members in office, shall not impair the powers of the board to execute the functions of the Corporation, and two of the members in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the board.
  (e) Citizenship; compensation; Government housing; reimbursement for expenses; outside business
     Each of the members of the board shall be a citizen of the United States. The compensation of each member of the board shall be paid by the Corporation as current expenses. Each member of the board, in addition to his salary, shall be permitted to occupy as his residence one of the dwelling houses owned by the Government in the vicinity of Muscle Shoals, Alabama, the same to be designated by the President of the United States. Members of the board shall be reimbursed by the Corporation for actual expenses (including traveling and subsistence expenses) incurred by them in the performance of the duties vested in the board by this chapter. No member of said board shall, during his continuance in office, be engaged in any other business, but each member shall devote himself to the work of the Corporation.
  (f) Conflicts of interest
     No director shall have financial interest in any public-utility corporation engaged in the business of distributing and selling power to the public nor in any corporation engaged in the manufacture, selling, or distribution of fixed nitrogen or fertilizer, or any ingredients thereof, nor shall any member have any interest in any business that may be adversely affected by the success of the Corporation as a producer of concentrated fertilizers or as a producer of electric power.
  (g) Function of board
     The board shall direct the exercise of all the powers of the Corporation.
  (h) Confidence in the Authority
     All members of the board shall be persons who profess a belief in the feasibility and wisdom of this chapter.
