  (a) In general
     The Secretary may select the site evaluated under section 10164 of this title that the Secretary determines on the basis of available information to be the most suitable for a monitored retrievable storage facility that is an integral part of the system for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste established under this chapter.
  (b) Limitation
     The Secretary may not select a site under subsection (a) of this section until the Secretary recommends to the President the approval of a site for development as a repository under section 10134(a) of this title.
  (c) Site specific activities
     The Secretary may conduct such site specific activities at each site surveyed under section 10164 of this title as he determines may be necessary to support an application to the Commission for a license to construct a monitored retrievable storage facility at such site.
  (d) Environmental assessment
     Site specific activities and selection of a site under this section shall not require the preparation of an environmental impact statement under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)). The Secretary shall prepare an environmental assessment with respect to such selection in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary implementing such Act [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.]. Such environmental assessment shall be based upon available information regarding alternative technologies for the storage of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. The Secretary shall submit such environmental assessment to the Congress at the time such site is selected.
  (e) Notification before selection
    (1) At least 6 months before selecting a site under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall notify the Governor and legislature of the State in which such site is located, or the governing body of the affected Indian tribe where such site is located, as the case may be, of such potential selection and the basis for such selection.
    (2) Before selecting any site under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall hold at least one public hearing in the vicinity of such site to solicit any recommendations of interested parties with respect to issues raised by the selection of such site.
  (f) Notification of selection
     The Secretary shall promptly notify Congress and the appropriate State or Indian tribe of the selection under subsection (a) of this section.
  (g) Limitation
     No monitored retrievable storage facility authorized pursuant to section 10162(b) of this title may be constructed in the State of Nevada.
