  (a) Substances covered
    (1) In general
       A substance is subject to the requirements of this subchapter if the substance is on the list published under paragraph (2).
    (2) List of extremely hazardous substances
       Within 30 days after October 17, 1986, the Administrator shall publish a list of extremely hazardous substances. The list shall be the same as the list of substances published in November 1985 by the Administrator in Appendix A of the ””Chemical Emergency Preparedness Program Interim Guidance““.
    (3) Thresholds
      (A) At the time the list referred to in paragraph (2) is published the Administrator shall–
        (i) publish an interim final regulation establishing a threshold planning quantity for each substance on the list, taking into account the criteria described in paragraph (4), and
        (ii) initiate a rulemaking in order to publish final regulations establishing a threshold planning quantity for each substance on the list.
      (B) The threshold planning quantities may, at the Administrator“s discretion, be based on classes of chemicals or categories of facilities.
      (C) If the Administrator fails to publish an interim final regulation establishing a threshold planning quantity for a substance within 30 days after October 17, 1986, the threshold planning quantity for the substance shall be 2 pounds until such time as the Administrator publishes regulations establishing a threshold for the substance.
    (4) Revisions
       The Administrator may revise the list and thresholds under paragraphs (2) and (3) from time to time. Any revisions to the list shall take into account the toxicity, reactivity, volatility, dispersability, combustability, or flammability of a substance. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ””toxicity““ shall include any short- or long-term health effect which may result from a short-term exposure to the substance.
  (b) Facilities covered
    (1) Except as provided in section 11004 of this title, a facility is subject to the requirements of this subchapter if a substance on the list referred to in subsection (a) of this section is present at the facility in an amount in excess of the threshold planning quantity established for such substance.
    (2) For purposes of emergency planning, a Governor or a State emergency response commission may designate additional facilities which shall be subject to the requirements of this subchapter, if such designation is made after public notice and opportunity for comment. The Governor or State emergency response commission shall notify the facility concerned of any facility designation under this paragraph.
  (c) Emergency planning notification
     Not later than seven months after October 17, 1986, the owner or operator of each facility subject to the requirements of this subchapter by reason of subsection (b)(1) of this section shall notify the State emergency response commission for the State in which such facility is located that such facility is subject to the requirements of this subchapter. Thereafter, if a substance on the list of extremely hazardous substances referred to in subsection (a) of this section first becomes present at such facility in excess of the threshold planning quantity established for such substance, or if there is a revision of such list and the facility has present a substance on the revised list in excess of the threshold planning quantity established for such substance, the owner or operator of the facility shall notify the State emergency response commission and the local emergency planning committee within 60 days after such acquisition or revision that such facility is subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
  (d) Notification of Administrator
     The State emergency response commission shall notify the Administrator of facilities subject to the requirements of this subchapter by notifying the Administrator of–
    (1) each notification received from a facility under subsection (c) of this section, and
    (2) each facility designated by the Governor or State emergency response commission under subsection (b)(2) of this section.
