   For purposes of this chapter–
  (1) Administrator
     The term ””Administrator““ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (2) Environment
     The term ””environment““ includes water, air, and land and the interrelationship which exists among and between water, air, and land and all living things.
  (3) Extremely hazardous substance
     The term ””extremely hazardous substance““ means a substance on the list described in section 11002(a)(2) of this title.
  (4) Facility
     The term ””facility““ means all buildings, equipment, structures, and other stationary items which are located on a single site or on contiguous or adjacent sites and which are owned or operated by the same person (or by any person which controls, is controlled by, or under common control with, such person). For purposes of section 11004 of this title, the term includes motor vehicles, rolling stock, and aircraft.
  (5) Hazardous chemical
     The term ””hazardous chemical““ has the meaning given such term by section 11021(e) of this title.
  (6) Material safety data sheet
     The term ””material safety data sheet““ means the sheet required to be developed under section 1910.1200(g) of title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as that section may be amended from time to time.
  (7) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation (including a government corporation), partnership, association, State, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a State, or interstate body.
  (8) Release
     The term ””release““ means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment (including the abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers, and other closed receptacles) of any hazardous chemical, extremely hazardous substance, or toxic chemical.
  (9) State
     The term ””State““ means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession over which the United States has jurisdiction.
  (10) Toxic chemical
     The term ””toxic chemical““ means a substance on the list described in section 11023(c) of this title.
