  (a) In general
     The Secretary may provide any project with one or more of the following types of assistance under this part:
    (1) Acquisition and rehabilitation
       A grant, in an amount not to exceed $200,000, for the acquisition, rehabilitation, or acquisition and rehabilitation, of an existing structure (including a small commercial property or office space) to provide supportive housing other than emergency shelter or to provide supportive services; except that the Secretary may increase the dollar limitation under this sentence to not more than $400,000 for areas that the Secretary finds have high acquisition and rehabilitation costs. The repayment of any outstanding debt owed on a loan made to purchase an existing structure shall be considered to be a cost of acquisition eligible for a grant under this paragraph if the structure was not used as supportive housing, or to provide supportive services, before the receipt of assistance.
    (2) New construction
       A grant, in an amount not to exceed $400,000, for new construction of a structure to provide supportive housing.
    (3) Leasing
       A grant for leasing of an existing structure or structures, or portions thereof, to provide supportive housing or supportive services during the period covered by the application. Grant recipients may reapply for such assistance as needed to continue the use of such structure for purposes of this part.
    (4) Operating costs
       Annual payments for operating costs of housing assisted under this part, not to exceed 75 percent of the annual operating costs of such housing. Grant recipients may reapply for such assistance as needed to continue the use of the housing for purposes of this part.
    (5) Supportive services
       A grant for costs of supportive services provided to homeless individuals. Any recipient, including program recipients under this subchapter before October 28, 1992, may reapply for such assistance or for the renewal of such assistance to continue services funded under prior grants or to provide other services.
    (6) Technical assistance
       Technical assistance in carrying out the purposes of this part.
  (b) Use restrictions
    (1) Acquisition, rehabilitation, and new construction
       Projects assisted under subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall be operated for not less than 20 years for the purpose specified in the application.
    (2) Other assistance
       Projects assisted under subsection (a)(3), (4), (5), or (6) of this section (but not under subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section) shall be operated for the purposes specified in the application for the duration of the period covered by the grant.
    (3) Conversion
       If the Secretary determines that a project is no longer needed for use as supportive housing and approves the use of the project for the direct benefit of low-income persons pursuant to a request for such use by the recipient operating the project, the Secretary may authorize the recipient to convert the project to such use.
  (c) Repayment of assistance and prevention of undue benefits
    (1) Repayment
       The Secretary shall require recipients to repay 100 percent of any assistance received under subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section if the project ceases to be used as supportive housing within 10 years after the project is placed in service. If such project is used as supportive housing for more than 10 years, the Secretary shall reduce the percentage of the amount required to be repaid by 10 percentage points for each year in excess of 10 that the project is used as supportive housing.
    (2) Prevention of undue benefits
       Except as provided in paragraph (3), upon any sale or other disposition of a project assisted under subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section occurring before the expiration of the 20-year period beginning on the date that the project is placed in service, the recipient shall comply with such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe to prevent the recipient from unduly benefiting from such sale or disposition.
    (3) Exception
       A recipient shall not be required to comply with the terms and conditions prescribed under paragraphs (1) and (2) if the sale or disposition of the project results in the use of the project for the direct benefit of very low-income persons or if all of the proceeds are used to provide supportive housing meeting the requirements of this part.
