   For purposes of this part:
  (1) The term ””applicant““ means a State, metropolitan city, urban county, governmental entity, private nonprofit organization, or community mental health association that is a public nonprofit organization, that is eligible to receive assistance under this part and submits an application under section 11386(a) of this title.
  (2) The term ””disability““ means–
    (A) a disability as defined in section 423 of this title,
    (B) to be determined to have, pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary, a physical, mental, or emotional impairment which (i) is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration, (ii) substantially impedes an individual“s ability to live independently, and (iii) of such a nature that such ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions,
    (C) a developmental disability as defined in section 6001 of this title, or
    (D) the disease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or any conditions arising from the etiologic agency for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
   Subparagraph (D) shall not be construed to limit eligibility under subparagraphs (A) through (C) or the provisions referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (C).
  (3) Repealed. Pub. L. 104–330, title V, § 506(a)(7)(B), Oct. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 4044.
  (4) The term ””metropolitan city““ has the meaning given the term in section 5302 of this title.
  (5) The term ””operating costs““ means expenses incurred by a recipient operating supportive housing under this part with respect to–
    (A) the administration, maintenance, repair, and security of such housing;
    (B) utilities, fuel, furnishings, and equipment for such housing; and
    (C) the conducting of the assessment under section 11386(c)(2) of this title.
  (6) The term ””outpatient health services““ means outpatient health care, outpatient mental health services, outpatient substance abuse services, and case management.
  (7) The term ””private nonprofit organization““ means an organization–
    (A) no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
    (B) that has a voluntary board;
    (C) that has an accounting system, or has designated a fiscal agent in accordance with requirements established by the Secretary; and
    (D) that practices nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance.
  (8) The term ””project““ means a structure or structures (or a portion of such structure or structures) that is acquired, rehabilitated, constructed, or leased with assistance provided under this part or with respect to which the Secretary provides technical assistance or annual payments for operating costs under this part, or supportive services.
  (9) The term ””recipient““ means any governmental or nonprofit entity that receives assistance under this part.
  (10) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (11) The term ””State““ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau.
  (12) The term ””supportive housing““ means a project that meets the requirements of section 11384 of this title.
  (13) The term ””supportive services““ means services under section 11385 of this title.
  (14) The term ””urban county““ has the meaning given the term in section 5302 of this title.
