   For purposes of this part:
  (1) The term ””acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases““ has the meaning given such term in section 12902 of this title.
  (2) The term ””applicant““ means a State, unit of general local government or public housing agency.
  (3) The term ””eligible person““ means a homeless person with disabilities (primarily persons who are seriously mentally ill, have chronic problems with alcohol, drugs, or both, or have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases) and the family of such a person.
  (4) Repealed. Pub. L. 104–330, title V, § 506(a)(9)(B), Oct. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 4045.
  (5) The term ””nonprofit organization““ has the meaning given such term by section 12704 of this title, and includes community mental health centers established as public nonprofit organizations.
  (6) The term ””person with disabilities““ has the same meaning given the term in section 8013 of this title.
  (7) The term ””public housing agency““ has the meaning given such term in section 1437a(b)(6) of this title.
  (8) The term ””recipient““ means an applicant approved for participation in the program authorized under this part.
  (9) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (10) The term ””seriously mentally ill““ means having a severe and persistent mental or emotional impairment that seriously limits a person“s ability to live independently.
  (11) The term ””State““ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (12) The term ””supportive services““ means assistance that the Secretary determines (A) addresses the special needs of eligible persons; and (B) provides appropriate services or assists such persons in obtaining appropriate services, including health care, mental health services, substance and alcohol abuse services, child care services, case management services, counseling, supervision, education, job training, and other services essential for achieving and maintaining independent living. Inpatient acute hospital care shall not qualify as a supportive service.
  (13) The term ””unit of general local government““ has the meaning given such term in section 5302 of this title.
