  (a) General authority
    (1) Grants
       The Secretary of Education is authorized to make grants to State educational agencies to enable each such agency to implement, either directly or through contracts and grants, a program of literacy training and academic remediation for adult homeless individuals within the State, which program shall–
      (A) include outreach activities; and
      (B) be coordinated with other agencies or organizations, such as community-based organizations, nonprofit literacy-action organizations, and recipients of funds under the Adult Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.], title II of the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.], the Youth Fair Chance program under part H of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1782 et seq.], the Volunteers in Service to America program under part A of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 [42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.], part C of this subchapter, or the Job Opportunity and Basic Skills program under part F \1\N of title IV of the Social Security Act.
    (2) Estimates and amounts
       The Secretary of Education, in awarding grants under this section, shall give special consideration to the estimates submitted in the application submitted under subsection (b) of this section and make such awards in whatever amounts such Secretary determines will best serve the purposes of this section.
  (b) Application
     Each State educational agency desiring to receive a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary of Education an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. Each such application shall include an estimate of the number of homeless individuals in the State and the number of such individuals expected to be served.
  (c) Authorization of appropriations
     For the purpose of carrying out the adult literacy training and academic remediation programs authorized by this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1995 through 1999.
  (d) ””State““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””State““ means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau (until the effective date of the Compact of Free Association with the Government of Palau).
