   For purposes of this subchapter:
  (1) Adult volunteer
     The term ””adult volunteer““ means an individual, such as an older adult, an individual with a disability, a parent, or an employee of a business or public or private nonprofit organization, who–
    (A) works without financial remuneration in an educational institution to assist students or out-of-school youth; and
    (B) is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the educational institution is located.
  (2) Approved national service position
     The term ””approved national service position““ means a national service position for which the Corporation has approved the provision of a national service educational award described in section 12603 of this title as one of the benefits to be provided for successful service in the position.
  (3) Carry out
     The term ””carry out““, when used in connection with a national service program described in section 12572 of this title, means the planning, establishment, operation, expansion, or replication of the program.
  (4) Chief Executive Officer
     The term ””Chief Executive Officer““, except when used to refer to the chief executive officer of a State, means the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation appointed under section 12651c of this title.
  (5) Community-based agency
     The term ””community-based agency““ means a private nonprofit organization (including a church or other religious entity) that–
    (A) is representative of a community or a significant segment of a community; and
    (B) is engaged in meeting human, educational, environmental, or public safety community needs.
  (6) Corporation
     The term ””Corporation““ means the Corporation for National and Community Service established under section 12651 of this title.
  (7) Economically disadvantaged
     The term ””economically disadvantaged““ means, with respect to an individual, an individual who is determined by the Chief Executive Officer to be low-income according to the latest available data from the Department of Commerce.
  (8) Elementary school
     The term ””elementary school““ has the same meaning given such term in section 8801 of title 20.
  (9) Indian
     The term ””Indian““ means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe, or is a ””Native““, as defined in section 1602(b) of title 43.
  (10) Indian lands
     The term ””Indian lands““ means any real property owned by an Indian tribe, any real property held in trust by the United States for an Indian or Indian tribe, and any real property held by an Indian or Indian tribe that is subject to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States.
  (11) Indian tribe
     The term ””Indian tribe““ means–
    (A) an Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including–
      (i) any Native village, as defined in section 1602(c) of title 43, whether organized traditionally or pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the ””Indian Reorganization Act““; 48 Stat. 984, chapter 576; 25 U.S.C 461 et seq.); and
      (ii) any Regional Corporation or Village Corporation, as defined in subsection (g) or (j), respectively, of section 1602 of title 43,
     that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States under Federal law to Indians because of their status as Indians; and
    (B) any tribal organization controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by an entity described in subparagraph (A).
  (12) Individual with a disability
     Except as provided in section 12635(a) of this title, the term ””individual with a disability““ has the meaning given the term in section 706(8)(B) of title 29.
  (13) Institution of higher education
     The term ””institution of higher education““ has the same meaning given such term in section 1141(a) of title 20.
  (14) Local educational agency
     The term ””local educational agency““ has the same meaning given such term in section 8801 of title 20.
  (15) National service laws
     The term ””national service laws““ means this chapter and the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).
  (16) Out-of-school youth
     The term ””out-of-school youth““ means an individual who–
    (A) has not attained the age of 27;
    (B) has not completed college or the equivalent thereof; and
    (C) is not enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education.
  (17) Participant
    (A) In general
       The term ””participant““ means–
      (i) for purposes of division C of this subchapter, an individual in an approved national service position; and
      (ii) for purposes of any other provision of this chapter, an individual enrolled in a program that receives assistance under this subchapter.
    (B) Rule
       A participant shall not be considered to be an employee of the program in which the participant is enrolled.
  (18) Partnership program
     The term ””partnership program““ means a program through which an adult volunteer, a public or private nonprofit organization, an institution of higher education, or a business assists a local educational agency.
  (19) Program
     The term ””program““, unless the context otherwise requires, and except when used as part of the term ””academic program““, means a program described in section 12521(a) of this title (other than a program referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of such section), 12542(a), 12561(b)(1), or 12572(a) of this title, or in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 12612(b) of this title, or an activity that could be funded under section 12653, 12653c, or 12653d of this title.
  (20) Project
     The term ””project““ means an activity, carried out through a program that receives assistance under this subchapter, that results in a specific identifiable service or improvement that otherwise would not be done with existing funds, and that does not duplicate the routine services or functions of the employer to whom participants are assigned.
  (21) School-age youth
     The term ””school-age youth““ means–
    (A) individuals between the ages of 5 and 17, inclusive; and
    (B) children with disabilities, as defined in section 602(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)), who receive services under part B of such Act [20 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.].
  (22) Secondary school
     The term ””secondary school““ has the same meaning given such term in section 8801 of title 20.
  (23) Service-learning
     The term ””service-learning““ means a method–
    (A) under which students or participants learn and develop through active participation in thoughtfully organized service that–
      (i) is conducted in and meets the needs of a community;
      (ii) is coordinated with an elementary school, secondary school, institution of higher education, or community service program, and with the community; and
      (iii) helps foster civic responsibility; and
    (B) that–
      (i) is integrated into and enhances the academic curriculum of the students, or the educational components of the community service program in which the participants are enrolled; and
      (ii) provides structured time for the students or participants to reflect on the service experience.
  (24) Service-learning coordinator
     The term ””service-learning coordinator““ means an individual who provides services as described in subsection (a)(3) or (b) of section 12521 of this title.
  (25) Service sponsor
     The term ””service sponsor““ means an organization, or other entity, that has been selected to provide a placement for a participant.
  (26) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The term also includes Palau, until such time as the Compact of Free Association is ratified.
  (27) State Commission
     The term ””State Commission““ means a State Commission on National and Community Service maintained by a State pursuant to section 12638 of this title. Except when used in section 12638 of this title, the term includes an alternative administrative entity for a State approved by the Corporation under such section to act in lieu of a State Commission.
  (28) State educational agency
     The term ””State educational agency““ has the same meaning given such term in section 8801 of title 20.
  (29) Student
     The term ””student““ means an individual who is enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education on a full- or part-time basis.
