  (a) Indian tribes and territories
     Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the Corporation shall reserve an amount of not more than 3 percent for payments to Indian tribes, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, to be allotted in accordance with their respective needs. The Corporation may also make payments from such amount to Palau, in accordance with its needs, until such time as the Compact of Free Association with Palau is ratified.
  (b) Grants and allotments through States
     The Corporation shall use the remainder of the funds appropriated to carry out this subpart for any fiscal year as follows:
    (1) Grants
       Except as provided in paragraph (3), from 25 percent of such remainder, the Corporation may make grants, on a competitive basis, to–
      (A) States and Indian tribes; or
      (B) as described in section 12523 of this title, to grantmaking entities.
    (2) Allotments
      (A) School-age youth
         Except as provided in paragraph (3), from 37.5 percent of such remainder, the Corporation shall allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 37.5 percent of such remainder as the number of school-age youth in the State bears to the total number of school-age youth of all States.
      (B) Allocation under Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
         Except as provided in paragraph (3), from 37.5 percent of such remainder, the Corporation shall allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 37.5 percent of such remainder as the allocation to the State for the previous fiscal year under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.] or its successor authority bears to such allocations to all States.
    (3) Minimum amount
       No State shall receive, under paragraph (2), an allotment that is less than the allotment such State received for fiscal year 1993 under section 12522(b) of this title, as in effect on the day before September 21, 1993. If the amount of funds made available in a fiscal year to carry out paragraph (2) is insufficient to make such allotments, the Corporation shall make available sums from the 25 percent described in paragraph (1) for such fiscal year to make such allotments.
    (4) ””State““ defined
       Notwithstanding section 12511(26) of this title, for purposes of this subsection, the term ””State““ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
  (c) Reallotment
     If the Corporation determines that the allotment of a State or Indian tribe under this section will not be required for a fiscal year because the State or Indian tribe does not submit an application for the allotment under section 12525 of this title that meets the requirements of such section and such other requirements as the Chief Executive Officer may determine to be appropriate, the Corporation shall, after making any grants under section 12522 of this title to a partnership or agency described in such section, make any remainder of such allotment available for reallotment to such other States, and Indian tribes, with approved applications submitted under section 12525 of this title, as the Corporation may determine to be appropriate.
  (d) Exception
     Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, if less than $20,000,000 is appropriated for any fiscal year to carry out this subpart, the Corporation shall award grants to States and Indian tribes, from the amount so appropriated, on a competitive basis to pay for the Federal share of the activities described in section 12521 of this title.
