  (a) Selection process
     Subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this section and section 12583(f) of this title, the actual recruitment and selection of an individual to serve in a national service program receiving assistance under section 12571 of this title or to fill an approved national service position shall be conducted by the State, subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, public or private nonprofit organization, institution of higher education, Federal agency, or other entity to which the assistance and approved national service positions are provided.
  (b) Nondiscrimination and nonpolitical selection of participants
     The recruitment and selection of individuals to serve in national service programs receiving assistance under section 12571 of this title or to fill approved national service positions shall be consistent with the requirements of section 12635 of this title.
  (c) Second term
     Acceptance into a national service program to serve a second term of service under section 12593 of this title shall only be available to individuals who perform satisfactorily in their first term of service.
  (d) Recruitment and placement
     The Corporation and each State Commission shall establish a system to recruit individuals who desire to perform national service and to assist the placement of these individuals in approved national service positions, which may include positions available under titles I and II of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq. [and 5000 et seq.]). The Corporation and State Commissions shall disseminate information regarding available approved national service positions through cooperation with secondary schools, institutions of higher education, employment service offices, State vocational rehabilitation agencies within the meaning of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) and other State agencies that primarily serve individuals with disabilities, and other appropriate entities, particularly those organizations that provide outreach to disadvantaged youths and youths who are individuals with disabilities.
  (e) National leadership pool
    (1) Selection and training
       From among individuals recruited under subsection (d) of this section, the Corporation may select individuals with significant leadership potential, as determined by the Corporation, to receive special training to enhance their leadership ability. The leadership training shall be provided by the Corporation directly or through a grant or contract.
    (2) Emphasis on certain individuals
       In selecting individuals to receive leadership training under this subsection, the Corporation shall make special efforts to select individuals who have served–
      (A) in the Peace Corps;
      (B) as VISTA volunteers;
      (C) as participants in national service programs receiving assistance under section 12571 of this title;
      (D) as participants in programs receiving assistance under part D of this subchapter, as in effect on the day before September 21, 1993; or
      (E) as members of the Armed Forces of the United States and who were honorably discharged from such service.
    (3) Assignment
       At the request of a program that receives assistance under the national service laws, the Corporation may assign an individual who receives leadership training under paragraph (1) to work with the program in a leadership position and carry out assignments not otherwise performed by regular participants. An individual assigned to a program shall be considered to be a participant of the program.
  (f) Evaluation of service
     The Corporation shall issue regulations regarding the manner and criteria by which the service of a participant shall be evaluated to determine whether the service is satisfactory and successful for purposes of eligibility for a second term of service or a national service educational award.
