  (a) Supervision
     The Chief Executive Officer shall monitor and supervise the administration of the Civilian Community Corps Demonstration Program authorized to be established under section 12612 of this title. In carrying out this section, the Chief Executive Officer shall–
    (1) approve such guidelines, recommended by the Board, for the design, selection of members, and operation of the Civilian Community Corps as the Chief Executive Officer considers appropriate;
    (2) evaluate the progress of the Corps in providing a basis for determining the matters set forth in section 12611 of this title; and
    (3) carry out any other activities determined appropriate by the Board.
  (b) Monitoring and coordination
     The Chief Executive Officer shall–
    (1) monitor the overall operation of the Civilian Community Corps;
    (2) coordinate the activities of the Corps with other youth service programs administered by the Corporation; and
    (3) carry out any other activities determined appropriate by the Board.
  (c) Staff
    (1) Director
      (A) Appointment
         Upon the establishment of the Program, the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint a Director. The Director may be selected from among retired commissioned officers of the Armed Forces of the United States.
      (B) Duties
         The Director shall–
        (i) design, develop, and administer the Civilian Community Corps programs;
        (ii) be responsible for managing the daily operations of the Corps; and
        (iii) report to the Chief Executive Officer.
      (C) Authority to employ staff
         The Director may employ such staff as is necessary to carry out this division. The Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, utilize in staff positions personnel who are detailed from departments and agencies of the Federal Government and, to the extent the Director considers appropriate, shall request and accept detail of personnel from such departments and agencies in order to do so.
    (2) Permanent cadre
      (A) Establishment
         The Director shall establish a permanent cadre of supervisors and training instructors for Civilian Community Corps programs.
      (B) Appointment
         The Director shall appoint the members of the permanent cadre.
      (C) Employment considerations
         In appointing individuals to cadre positions, the Director shall–
        (i) give consideration to retired, discharged, and other inactive members and former members of the Armed Forces recommended under section 12622(a)(2) of this title;
        (ii) give consideration to former VISTA, Peace Corps, and youth service program personnel;
        (iii) ensure that the cadre is comprised of males and females of diverse ethnic, economic, professional, and geographic backgrounds; and
        (iv) consider applicants“ experience in other youth service programs.
      (D) Community service credit
         Service as a member of the cadre shall be considered as a community service opportunity for purposes of section 4403 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 and as employment with a public service or community service organization for purposes of section 4464 of that Act.
      (E) Training
         The Director shall provide to members of the permanent cadre appropriate training in youth development techniques and the principles of service learning. All members of the permanent cadre shall be required to participate in the training.
    (3) Inapplicability of certain civil service laws
       The Director, the members of the permanent cadre, and the other staff personnel shall be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service. The rates of pay of such persons may be established without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title. In the case of a member of the permanent cadre who was recommended for appointment in accordance with section 12622(a)(2)(A) of this title and is entitled to retired or retainer pay, section 5532 of title 5 shall not apply to reduce the member“s retired or retainer pay by reason of the member being paid as a member of the cadre.
    (4) Voluntary services
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director may accept the voluntary services of individuals. While away from their homes or regular places of business on the business of the Corps, such individuals may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same amounts and to the same extent, as authorized under section 5703 of title 5 for persons employed intermittently in Federal Government service.
