  (a) Director
     Upon the establishment of the Civilian Community Corps Demonstration Program, the Civilian Community Corps shall be under the direction of the Director appointed pursuant to section 12619(c)(1) of this title.
  (b) Membership in Civilian Community Corps
    (1) Participants to be members
       Persons selected to participate in the national service program or the summer national service program components of the Program shall become members of the Civilian Community Corps.
    (2) Selection of members
       The Director or the Director“s designee shall select individuals for membership in the Corps.
    (3) Application for membership
       To be selected to become a Corps member an individual shall submit an application to the Director or to any other office as the Director may designate, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director shall require. At a minimum, the application shall contain information about the work experience of the applicant and sufficient information to enable the Director, or the superintendent of the appropriate camp, to determine whether selection of the applicant for membership in the Corps is appropriate.
  (c) Organization of Corps into units
    (1) Units
       The Corps shall be divided into permanent units. Each Corps member shall be assigned to a unit.
    (2) Unit leaders
       The leader of each unit shall be selected from among persons in the permanent cadre established pursuant to section 12619(c)(2) of this title. The designated leader shall accompany the unit throughout the period of agreed service of the members of the unit.
  (d) Camps
    (1) Units to be assigned to camps
       The units of the Corps shall be grouped together as appropriate in camps for operational, support, and boarding purposes. The Corps camp for a unit shall be in a facility or central location established as the operational headquarters and boarding place for the unit. Corps members may be housed in the camps.
    (2) Camp superintendent
       There shall be a superintendent for each camp. The superintendent is the head of the camp.
    (3) Eligible site for camp
       A camp may be located in a facility referred to in section 12622(a)(3) of this title.
  (e) Distribution of units and camps
     The Director shall ensure that the Corps units and camps are distributed in urban areas and rural areas in various regions throughout the United States.
  (f) Standards of conduct
    (1) In general
       The superintendent of each camp shall establish and enforce standards of conduct to promote proper moral and disciplinary conditions in the camp.
    (2) Sanctions
       Under procedures prescribed by the Director, the superintendent of a camp may–
      (A) transfer a member of the Corps in that camp to another unit or camp if the superintendent determines that the retention of the member in the member“s unit or in the superintendent“s camp will jeopardize the enforcement of the standards or diminish the opportunities of other Corps members in that unit or camp, as the case may be; or
      (B) dismiss a member of the Corps from the Corps if the superintendent determines that retention of the member in the Corps will jeopardize the enforcement of the standards or diminish the opportunities of other Corps members.
    (3) Appeals
       Under procedures prescribed by the Director, a member of the Corps may appeal to the Director a determination of a camp superintendent to transfer or dismiss the member. The Director shall provide for expeditious disposition of appeals under this paragraph.
