  (a) In general
     The Director shall provide for members of the Civilian Community Corps to receive benefits authorized by this section.
  (b) Living allowance
     The Director shall provide a living allowance to members of the Corps for the period during which such members are engaged in training or any activity on a Corps project. The Director shall establish the amount of the allowance at any amount not in excess of the amount equal to 100 percent of the poverty line that is applicable to a family of two (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget and revised annually in accordance with section 9902(2) of this title.\1\N
  (c) Other authorized benefits
     While receiving training or engaging in service projects as members of the Civilian Community Corps, members may be provided the following benefits:
    (1) Allowances for travel expenses, personal expenses, and other expenses.
    (2) Quarters.
    (3) Subsistence.
    (4) Transportation.
    (5) Equipment.
    (6) Clothing.
    (7) Recreational services and supplies.
    (8) Other services determined by the Director to be consistent with the purposes of the Program.
  (d) Supportive services
     As the Director determines appropriate, the Director may provide each member of the Corps with health care services, child care services, counseling services, and other supportive services.
  (e) Post-service benefits
     Upon completion of the agreed period of service with the Corps, a member shall elect to receive the educational assistance under subsection (f) of this section or the cash benefit under subsection (g) of this section.
  (f) National service educational awards
     A Corps member who successfully completes a period of agreed service in the Corps may receive the national service educational award described in division D of this subchapter if the Corps member–
    (1) serves in an approved national service position; and
    (2) satisfies the eligibility requirements specified in section 12602 of this title with respect to service in that approved national service position.
  (g) Alternative benefit
     If a Corps member who successfully completes a period of agreed service in the Corps is ineligible for the national service educational award described in division D of this subchapter, the Director may provide for the provision of a suitable alternative benefit for the Corps member.
