   In this division:
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
  (2) Corps
     The terms ””Civilian Community Corps““ and ””Corps““ mean the Civilian Community Corps required under section 12615 of this title as part of the Civilian Community Corps Demonstration Program.
  (3) Corps camp
     The term ””Corps camp““ means the facility or central location established as the operational headquarters and boarding place for particular Corps units.
  (4) Corps members
     The term ””Corps members““ means persons receiving training and participating in projects under the Civilian Community Corps Demonstration Program.
  (5) Director
     The term ””Director““ means the Director of the Civilian Community Corps.
  (6) Institution of higher education
     The term ””institution of higher education““ has the meaning given that term in section 1141(a) of title 20.
  (7) Program
     The terms ””Civilian Community Corps Demonstration Program““ and ””Program““ mean the Civilian Community Corps Demonstration Program established pursuant to section 12612 of this title.
  (8) Service learning
     The term ””service learning““, with respect to Corps members, means a method–
    (A) under which Corps members learn and develop through active participation in thoughtfully organized service experiences that meet actual community needs;
    (B) that provides structured time for a Corps member to think, talk, or write about what the Corps member did and saw during an actual service activity;
    (C) that provides Corps members with opportunities to use newly acquired skills and knowledge in real life situations in their own communities; and
    (D) that helps to foster the development of a sense of caring for others, good citizenship, and civic responsibility.
  (9) Superintendent
     The term ””superintendent““, with respect to a Corps camp, means the head of the camp under section 12615(d) of this title.
  (10) Unit
     The term ””unit““ means a unit of the Corps referred to in section 12615(c) of this title.
