  (a) Secretary of Defense
    (1) Liaison office
      (A) Establishment
         Upon the establishment of the Program, the Secretary of Defense shall establish an office to provide for liaison between the Secretary and the Civilian Community Corps.
      (B) Duties
         The office shall–
        (i) in order to assist in the recruitment of personnel for appointment in the permanent cadre, make available to the Director information in the registry established by section 1143a of title 10; and
        (ii) provide other assistance in the coordination of Department of Defense activities with the Corps.
    (2) Corps cadre
      (A) List of recommended personnel
         Upon the establishment of the Program, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the liaison office established under paragraph (1) shall develop a list of individuals to be recommended for appointment in the permanent cadre of Corps personnel. Such personnel shall be selected from among members and former members of the Armed Forces referred to in section 12611(3) of this title who are commissioned officers, noncommissioned officers, former commissioned officers, or former noncommissioned officers.
      (B) Recommendations regarding grade and pay
         The Secretary of Defense shall recommend to the Director an appropriate rate of pay for each person recommended for the cadre pursuant to this paragraph.
      (C) Contribution for retired member“s pay
         If a listed individual receiving retired or retainer pay is appointed to a position in the cadre and the rate of pay for that individual is established at the amount equal to the difference between the active duty pay and allowances which that individual would receive if ordered to active duty and the amount of the individual“s retired or retainer pay, the Secretary of Defense shall pay, by transfer to the Corporation from amounts available for pay of active duty members of the Armed Forces, the amount equal to 50 percent of that individual“s rate of pay for service in the cadre.
    (3) Facilities
       Upon the establishment of the Program, the Secretary of Defense shall identify military installations and other facilities of the Department of Defense and, in consultation with the adjutant generals of the State National Guards, National Guard facilities that may be used, in whole or in part, by the Civilian Community Corps for training or housing Corps members. The Secretary of Defense shall carry out this paragraph in consultation with the liaison office established under paragraph (1).
    (4) Information regarding Corps
       The Secretary of Defense may permit Armed Forces recruiters to inform potential applicants for the Corps regarding service in the Corps as an alternative to service in the Armed Forces.
  (b) Secretary of Labor
     Upon the establishment of the Program, the Secretary of Labor shall identify and assist in establishing a system for the recruitment of persons to serve as members of the Civilian Community Corps. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary of Labor may utilize the Employment Service Agency or the Office of Job Training.
