  (a) Existence required
    (1) State Commission
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), to be eligible to receive a grant or allotment under division B or C of this subchapter or to receive a distribution of approved national service positions under division C of this subchapter, a State shall maintain a State Commission on National and Community Service that satisfies the requirements of this section.
    (2) Alternative administrative entity
       The chief executive officer of a State may apply to the Corporation for approval to use an alternative administrative entity to carry out the duties otherwise entrusted to a State Commission under this chapter. The chief executive officer shall ensure that any alternative administrative entity used in lieu of a State Commission provides for the individuals described in paragraph (1), and some of the individuals described in paragraph (2), of subsection (c) of this section to play a significant policymaking role in carrying out the duties otherwise entrusted to a State Commission, including the submission of applications on behalf of the State under sections 12543 and 12582 of this title.
  (b) Appointment and size
     Except as provided in subsection (c)(3) of this section, the members of a State Commission for a State shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of the State. A State Commission shall consist of not fewer than 15, and not more than 25, voting members, and any ex officio nonvoting members, as described in paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (c) of this section.
  (c) Composition and membership
    (1) Required members
       The State Commission for a State shall include as voting members at least one of each of the following individuals:
      (A) An individual with expertise in the educational, training, and development needs of youth, particularly disadvantaged youth.
      (B) An individual with experience in promoting the involvement of older adults in service and voluntarism.
      (C) A representative of community-based agencies or community-based organizations within the State.
      (D) The head of the State educational agency.
      (E) A representative of local governments in the State.
      (F) A representative of local labor organizations in the State.
      (G) A representative of business.
      (H) An individual between the ages of 16 and 25 who is a participant or supervisor in a program.
        (I) A representative of a national service program described in section 12572(a) of this title, such as a youth corps program described in section 12572(a)(2) of this title.
    (2) Sources of other members
       The State Commission for a State may include as voting members the following individuals:
      (A) Members selected from among local educators.
      (B) Members selected from among experts in the delivery of human, educational, environmental, or public safety services to communities and persons.
      (C) Representatives of Indian tribes.
      (D) Members selected from among out-of-school youth or other at-risk youth.
      (E) Representatives of entities that receive assistance under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).
    (3) Corporation representative
       The representative of the Corporation designated under section 12651f(c) of this title for a State shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity for that State, unless the State permits the representative to serve as a voting member of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity.
    (4) Ex officio State representatives
       The chief executive officer of a State may appoint, as ex officio nonvoting members of the State Commission for the State, representatives selected from among officers and employees of State agencies operating community service, youth service, education, social service, senior service, and job training programs.
    (5) Limitation on number of State employees as members
       The number of voting members of a State Commission selected under paragraph (1) or (2) who are officers or employees of the State may not exceed 25 percent (reduced to the nearest whole number) of the total membership of the State Commission.
  (d) Miscellaneous matters
    (1) Membership balance
       The chief executive officer of a State shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the membership of the State Commission for the State is diverse with respect to race, ethnicity, age, gender, and disability characteristics. Not more than 50 percent of the voting members of a State Commission, plus one additional member, may be from the same political party.
    (2) Terms
       Each member of the State Commission for a State shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that the chief executive officer of a State shall initially appoint a portion of the members to terms of 1 year and 2 years.
    (3) Vacancies
       If a vacancy occurs on a State Commission, a new member shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of the State and serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor of such member was appointed. The vacancy shall not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the State Commission.
    (4) Compensation
       A member of a State Commission or alternative administrative entity shall not receive any additional compensation by reason of service on the State Commission or alternative administrative entity, except that the State may authorize the reimbursement of travel expenses, including a per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as other employees serving intermittently in the service of the State.
    (5) Chairperson
       The voting members of a State Commission shall elect one of the voting members to serve as chairperson of the State Commission.
    (6) Limitation on member participation
      (A) General limitation
         Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a voting member of the State Commission (or of an alternative administrative entity) shall not participate in the administration of the grant program (including any discussion or decision regarding the provision of assistance or approved national service positions, or the continuation, suspension, or termination of such assistance or such positions, to any program or entity) described in subsection (e)(9) of this section if–
        (i) a grant application relating to such program is pending before the Commission (or such entity); and
        (ii) the application was submitted by a program or entity of which such member is, or in the 1-year period before the submission of such application was, an officer, director, trustee, full-time volunteer, or employee.
      (B) Exception
         If, as a result of the operation of subparagraph (A), the number of voting members of the Commission (or of such entity) is insufficient to establish a quorum for the purpose of administering such program, then voting members excluded from participation by subparagraph (A) may participate in the administration of such program, notwithstanding the limitation in subparagraph (A), to the extent permitted by regulations issued under section 12651d(b)(11) of this title by the Corporation.
      (C) Rule of construction
         Subparagraph (A) shall not be construed to limit the authority of any voting member of the Commission (or of such entity) to participate in–
        (i) discussion of, and hearing and forums on–
          (I) the general duties, policies, and operations of the Commission (or of such entity); or
          (II) the general administration of such program; or
        (ii) similar general matters relating to the Commission (or such entity).
  (e) Duties of a State Commission
     The State Commission or alternative administrative entity for a State shall be responsible for the following duties:
    (1) Preparation of a national service plan for the State that–
      (A) is developed through an open and public process (such as through regional forums, hearings, and other means) that provides for maximum participation and input from national service programs within the State and other interested members of the public;
      (B) covers a 3-year period;
      (C) is updated annually;
      (D) ensures outreach to diverse community-based agencies that serve underrepresented populations, by–
        (i) using established networks, and registries, at the State level; or
        (ii) establishing such networks and registries; and
      (E) contains such information as the State Commission considers to be appropriate or as the Corporation may require.
    (2) Preparation of the applications of the State under sections 12543 and 12582 of this title for financial assistance.
    (3) Assistance in the preparation of the application of the State educational agency for assistance under section 12525 of this title.
    (4) Preparation of the application of the State under section 12582 of this title for the approval of service positions that include the national service educational award described in division D of this subchapter.
    (5) Make recommendations to the Corporation with respect to priorities for programs receiving assistance under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).
    (6) Make technical assistance available to enable applicants for assistance under section 12571 of this title–
      (A) to plan and implement service programs; and
      (B) to apply for assistance under the national service laws using, if appropriate, information and materials available through a clearinghouse established under section 12653a of this title.
    (7) Assistance in the provision of health care and child care benefits under section 12594 of this title to participants in national service programs that receive assistance under section 12571 of this title.
    (8) Development of a State system for the recruitment and placement of participants in programs that receive assistance under the national service laws and dissemination of information concerning national service programs that receive such assistance or approved national service positions.
    (9) Administration of the grant program in support of national service programs that is conducted by the State using assistance provided to the State under section 12571 of this title, including selection, oversight, and evaluation of grant recipients.
    (10) Development of projects, training methods, curriculum materials, and other materials and activities related to national service programs that receive assistance directly from the Corporation (to be made available in a case in which such a program requests such a project, method, material, or activity) or from the State using assistance provided under section 12571 of this title, for use by programs that request such projects, methods, materials, and activities.
  (f) Activity ineligible for assistance
     A State Commission or alternative administrative entity may not directly carry out any national service program that receives assistance under section 12571 of this title.
  (g) Delegation
     Subject to such requirements as the Corporation may prescribe, a State Commission may delegate nonpolicymaking duties to a State agency or public or private nonprofit organization.
  (h) Approval of State Commission or alternative
    (1) Submission to Corporation
       The chief executive officer for a State shall notify the Corporation of the establishment or designation of the State Commission or use of an alternative administrative entity for the State. The notification shall include a description of–
      (A) the composition and membership of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity; and
      (B) the authority of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity regarding national service activities carried out by the State.
    (2) Approval of alternative administrative entity
       Any designation of a State Commission or use of an alternative administrative entity to carry out the duties of a State Commission shall be subject to the approval of the Corporation, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Corporation shall approve an alternative administrative entity if such entity provides for individuals described in paragraph (1), and some of the individuals described in paragraph (2), of subsection (c) of this section to play a significant policymaking role in carrying out the duties otherwise entrusted to a State Commission, including the duties described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (e) of this section.
    (3) Rejection
       The Corporation may reject a State Commission if the Corporation determines that the composition, membership, or duties of the State Commission do not comply with the requirements of this section. The Corporation may reject a request to use an alternative administrative entity in lieu of a State Commission if the Corporation determines that the entity does not provide for the individuals described in paragraph (1), and some of the individuals described in paragraph (2), of subsection (c) of this section to play a significant policymaking role as described in paragraph (2). If the Corporation rejects a State Commission or alternative administrative entity under this paragraph, the Corporation shall promptly notify the State of the reasons for the rejection.
    (4) Resubmission and reconsideration
       The Corporation shall provide a State notified under paragraph (3) with a reasonable opportunity to revise the rejected State Commission or alternative administrative entity. At the request of the State, the Corporation shall provide technical assistance to the State as part of the revision process. The Corporation shall promptly reconsider any resubmission of a notification under paragraph (1) or application to use an alternative administrative entity under paragraph (2).
    (5) Subsequent changes
       This subsection shall also apply to any change in the composition or duties of a State Commission or an alternative administrative entity made after approval of the State Commission or the alternative administrative entity.
    (6) Rights
       An alternative administrative entity approved by the Corporation under this subsection shall have the same rights as a State Commission.
      (i) Coordination
        (1) Coordination with other State agencies
           The State Commission or alternative administrative entity for a State shall coordinate the activities of the Commission or entity under this chapter with the activities of other State agencies that administer Federal financial assistance programs under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901 et seq.) or other appropriate Federal financial assistance programs.
        (2) Coordination with volunteer service programs
          (A) In general
             The State Commission or alternative administrative entity for a State shall coordinate functions of the Commission or entity (including recruitment, public awareness, and training activities) with such functions of any division of the Corporation that carries out volunteer service programs in the State.
          (B) Agreement
             In coordinating functions under this paragraph, such Commission or entity, and such division, may enter into an agreement to–
            (i) carry out such a function jointly;
            (ii) to \1\N assign responsibility for such a function to the Commission or entity; or
            (iii) to \1\ assign responsibility for such a function to the division.
          (C) Information
             The State Commission or alternative entity for a State, and the head of any such division, shall exchange information about–
            (i) the programs carried out in the State by the Commission, entity, or division, as appropriate; and
            (ii) opportunities to coordinate activities.
      (j) Liability
        (1) Liability of State
           Except as provided in paragraph (2)(B), a State shall agree to assume liability with respect to any claim arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by a member of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity of the State, within the scope of the service of the member on the State Commission or alternative administrative entity.
        (2) Other claims
          (A) In general
             A member of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity shall have no personal liability with respect to any claim arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by such person, within the scope of the service of the member on the State Commission or alternative administrative entity.
          (B) Limitation
             This paragraph shall not be construed to limit personal liability for criminal acts or omissions, willful or malicious misconduct, acts or omissions for private gain, or any other act or omission outside the scope of the service of such member on the State Commission or alternative administrative entity.
        (3) Effect on other law
           This subsection shall not be construed–
          (A) to affect any other immunities and protections that may be available to such member under applicable law with respect to such service;
          (B) to affect any other right or remedy against the State under applicable law, or against any person other than a member of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity; or
          (C) to limit or alter in any way the immunities that are available under applicable law for State officials and employees not described in this subsection.
