  (a) In general
    (1) Basis
       An individual with responsibility for the operation of a project that receives assistance under this subchapter shall not discriminate against a participant in, or member of the staff of, such project on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or political affiliation of such participant or member, or on the basis of disability, if the participant or member is a qualified individual with a disability.
    (2) ””Qualified individual with a disability““ defined
       As used in paragraph (1), the term ””qualified individual with a disability““ has the meaning given the term in section 12111(8) of this title.
  (b) Federal financial assistance
     Any assistance provided under this subchapter shall constitute Federal financial assistance for purposes of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), and shall constitute Federal financial assistance to an education program or activity for purposes of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.).
  (c) Religious discrimination
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), an individual with responsibility for the operation of a project that receives assistance under this subchapter shall not discriminate on the basis of religion against a participant in such project or a member of the staff of such project who is paid with funds received under this subchapter.
    (2) Exception
       Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the employment, with assistance provided under this subchapter, of any member of the staff, of a project that receives assistance under this subchapter, who was employed with the organization operating the project on the date the grant under this subchapter was awarded.
  (d) Rules and regulations
     The Chief Executive Officer shall promulgate rules and regulations to provide for the enforcement of this section that shall include provisions for summary suspension of assistance for not more than 30 days, on an emergency basis, until notice and an opportunity to be heard can be provided.
