  (a) Composition
    (1) In general
       There shall be in the Corporation a Board of Directors (referred to in this division as the ””Board““) that shall be composed of–
      (A) 15 members, including an individual between the ages of 16 and 25 who–
        (i) has served in a school-based or community-based service-learning program; or
        (ii) is or was a participant or a supervisor in a program;
       to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
      (B) the ex officio nonvoting members described in paragraph (3).
    (2) Qualifications
       To the maximum extent practicable, the President shall appoint members–
      (A) who have extensive experience in volunteer or service activities, which may include programs funded under one of the national service laws, and in State government;
      (B) who represent a broad range of viewpoints;
      (C) who are experts in the delivery of human, educational, environmental, or public safety services;
      (D) so that the Board shall be diverse according to race, ethnicity, age, gender, and disability characteristics; and
      (E) so that no more than 50 percent of the appointed members of the Board, plus 1 additional appointed member, are from a single political party.
    (3) Ex officio members
       The Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Director of the Peace Corps, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Chief Executive Officer shall serve as ex officio nonvoting members of the Board.
  (b) Officers
    (1) Chairperson
       The President shall appoint a member of the Board to serve as the initial Chairperson of the Board. Each subsequent Chairperson shall be elected by the Board from among its members.
    (2) Vice Chairperson
       The Board shall elect a Vice Chairperson from among its membership.
    (3) Other officers
       The Board may elect from among its membership such additional officers of the Board as the Board determines to be appropriate.
  (c) Terms
     Each appointed member of the Board shall serve for a term of 5 years, except that, as designated by the President–
    (1) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve for a term of 1 year;
    (2) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve for a term of 2 years;
    (3) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve for a term of 3 years;
    (4) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve for a term of 4 years; and
    (5) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve for a term of 5 years.
  (d) Vacancies
     If a vacancy occurs on the Board, a new member shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor of such member was appointed. The vacancy shall not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Board.
