  (a) Donations
    (1) Services
      (A) Volunteers
         Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, the Corporation may solicit and accept the voluntary services of individuals to assist the Corporation in carrying out the duties of the Corporation under the national service laws, and may provide to such individuals the travel expenses described in section 12651b(d) of this title.
      (B) Limitation
         Such a volunteer shall not be considered to be a Federal employee and shall not be subject to the provisions of law relating to Federal employment, including those relating to hours of work, rates of compensation, leave, unemployment compensation, and Federal employee benefits, except that–
        (i) for the purposes of the tort claims provisions of chapter 171 of title 28, a volunteer under this division shall be considered to be a Federal employee;
        (ii) for the purposes of subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5 relating to compensation to Federal employees for work injuries, volunteers under this division shall be considered to be employees, as defined in section 8101(1)(B) of title 5 and the provisions of such subchapter shall apply; and
        (iii) for purposes of the provisions of chapter 11 of part I of title 18, such a volunteer (to whom such provisions would not otherwise apply except for this subsection) shall be a special Government employee.
      (C) Inherently governmental function
        (i) In general
           Such a volunteer shall not carry out an inherently governmental function.
        (ii) Regulations
           The Chief Executive Officer shall promulgate regulations to carry out this subparagraph.
        (iii) ””Inherently governmental function““ defined
           As used in this subparagraph, the term ””inherently governmental function““ means any activity that is so intimately related to the public interest as to mandate performance by an officer or employee of the Federal Government, including an activity that requires either the exercise of discretion in applying the authority of the Government or the use of value judgment in making a decision for the Government.
    (2) Property
      (A) In general
         The Corporation may solicit, accept, hold, administer, use, and dispose of, in furtherance of the purposes of the national service laws, donations of any money or property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise. Donations accepted under this subparagraph shall be used as nearly as possible in accordance with the terms, if any, of such donation.
      (B) Status of contribution
         Any donation accepted under subparagraph (A) shall be considered to be a gift, devise, or bequest to, or for the use of, the United States.
      (C) Rules
         The Chief Executive Officer shall establish written rules to ensure that the solicitation, acceptance, holding, administration, and use of property described in subparagraph (A)–
        (i) will not reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the Corporation, or of any officer or employee of the Corporation, to carry out the responsibilities or official duties of the Corporation in a fair and objective manner; and
        (ii) will not compromise the integrity of the programs of the Corporation or any official or employee of the Corporation involved in such programs.
      (D) Disposition
         Upon completion of the use by the Corporation of any property accepted pursuant to subparagraph (A) (other than money or monetary proceeds from sales of property so accepted), such completion shall be reported to the General Services Administration and such property shall be disposed of in accordance with title II of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 481 et seq.).
    (3) Volunteer
       As used in this subsection, the term ””volunteer““ does not include a participant.
  (b) Contracts
     Subject to the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 [40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.], the Corporation may enter into contracts, and cooperative and interagency agreements, with Federal and State agencies, private firms, institutions, and individuals to conduct activities necessary to assist the Corporation in carrying out the duties of the Corporation under the national service laws.
  (c) Office of Management and Budget
     Appropriate circulars of the Office of Management and Budget shall apply to the Corporation.
