  (a) Full-time service
    (1) Living allowance required
       Subject to paragraph (3), each participant in a full-time youth corps program that receives assistance under this division shall receive a living allowance in an amount equal to or greater than the average annual subsistence allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under section 4955 of this title.
    (2) Limitation on Federal share
       The amount of the annual living allowance provided under paragraph (1) that may be paid using assistance provided under this division, section 12571 of this title, and any other Federal funds shall not exceed 85 percent of the total average annual subsistence allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under section 4955 of this title.
    (3) Maximum living allowance
       The total amount of an annual living allowance that may be provided to a participant in a full-time youth corps program that receives assistance under this division shall not exceed 200 percent of the average annual subsistence allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under section 4955 of this title.
    (4) Waiver or reduction of living allowance
       The Corporation may waive or reduce the requirement of paragraph (1) with respect to such national service program if such program demonstrates that–
      (A) such requirement is inconsistent with the objectives of the program; and
      (B) the amount of the living allowance that will be provided to each full-time participant is sufficient to meet the necessary costs of living (including food, housing, and transportation) in the area in which the program is located.
    (5) Exemption
       The requirement of paragraph (1) shall not apply to any program that was in existence on September 21, 1993.
  (b) Reduction in existing program benefits
    (1) In general
       Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a program in existence on November 16, 1990, to decrease any stipends, salaries, or living allowances provided to participants under such program so long as the amount of any such stipends, salaries, or living allowances that is in excess of the levels provided for in this section are paid from non-Federal sources.
    (2) Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
       For purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 [29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.], residential youth corps programs under this division will be considered an organized camp.
  (c) Health insurance
     In addition to the living allowance provided under subsection (a) of this section, program agencies are encouraged to provide health insurance to each participant in a full-time youth corps program who does not otherwise have access to health insurance.
  (d) Facilities, services, and supplies
    (1) In general
       The program agency may deduct, from amounts provided under subsection (a) of this section to a participant, a reasonable portion of the costs of the rates for any room and board that is provided for such participant at a residential facility. Such deducted funds shall be deposited into rollover accounts that shall be used solely to defray the costs of room and board for participants.
    (2) Evaluation
       The program agency shall establish the amount of the deductions and rates under paragraph (1) after evaluating the costs of providing such room and board to the participant.
    (3) Duties of program agency
       A program agency may provide facilities, quarters, and board and shall provide limited and emergency medical care, transportation from administrative facilities to work sites, accommodations for individuals with disabilities, and other appropriate services, supplies, and equipment to each participant.
    (4) Other Federal agencies
      (A) In general
         The Corporation may provide services, facilities, supplies, and equipment, including any surplus food and equipment available from other Federal programs, to any program agency carrying out projects under this division.
      (B) Secretary of Defense
         Whenever possible, the Corporation shall make arrangements with the Secretary of Defense to have logistical support provided by a military installation near the work site, including the provision of temporary tent centers where needed, and other supplies and equipment.
    (5) Health and safety standards
       The Corporation and program agencies shall establish standards and enforcement procedures concerning the health and safety of participants for all projects, consistent with Federal, State, and local health and safety standards.
