  (a) Managing Directors
    (1) In general
       There shall be in the Corporation 2 Managing Directors, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and who shall report to the Chief Executive Officer.
    (2) Compensation
       The Managing Directors shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.
    (3) Duties
       The Corporation shall determine the programs for which the Managing Directors shall have primary responsibility and shall establish the divisions of the Corporation to be headed by the Managing Directors.
  (b) Inspector General
    (1) Office
       There shall be in the Corporation an Office of the Inspector General.
    (2) Appointment
       The Office shall be headed by an Inspector General, appointed in accordance with the Inspector General Act of 1978 [5 App. U.S.C.].
    (3) Compensation
       The Inspector General shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.
  (c) Chief Financial Officer
    (1) Office
       There shall be in the Corporation a Chief Financial Officer, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) Compensation
       The Chief Financial Officer shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.
    (3) Duties
       The Chief Financial Officer shall–
      (A) report directly to the Chief Executive Officer regarding financial management matters;
      (B) oversee all financial management activities relating to the programs and operations of the Corporation;
      (C) develop and maintain an integrated accounting and financial management system for the Corporation, including financial reporting and internal controls;
      (D) develop and maintain any joint financial management systems with the Department of Education necessary to carry out the programs of the Corporation; and
      (E) direct, manage, and provide policy guidance and oversight of the financial management personnel, activities, and operations of the Corporation.
  (d) Assistant Directors for VISTA and National Senior Volunteer Corps
    (1) Appointment
       One of the Managing Directors appointed under subsection (a) of this section shall, in accordance with applicable provisions of title 5, appoint 4 Assistant Directors who shall report directly to such Managing Director, of which–
      (A) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under parts A and B of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 [42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq., 4971 et seq.] (the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program) and other antipoverty programs under title I of that Act [42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.];
      (B) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under part A of title II of that Act [42 U.S.C. 5001 et seq.] (relating to the Retired Senior Volunteer Program);
      (C) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under part B of title II of that Act [42 U.S.C. 5011 et seq.] (relating to the Foster Grandparent Program); and
      (D) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under part C of title II of that Act [42 U.S.C. 5013] (relating to the Senior Companion Program).
    (2) Effective date for exercise of authority
       Each Assistant Director appointed pursuant to paragraph (1) may exercise the authority assigned to each such Director only after the effective date of section 203(c)(2) of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993.
