  (a) Housing uses
    (1) In general
       Funds made available under this part may be used by participating jurisdictions to provide incentives to develop and support affordable rental housing and homeownership affordability through the acquisition, new construction, reconstruction, or moderate or substantial rehabilitation of affordable housing, including real property acquisition, site improvement, conversion, demolition, and other expenses, including financing costs, relocation expenses of any displaced persons, families, businesses, or organizations, to provide for the payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs, to provide for the payment of operating expenses of community housing development organizations, and to provide tenant-based rental assistance. For the purpose of this part, the term ””affordable housing““ includes permanent housing for disabled homeless persons, transitional housing, and single room occupancy housing.
    (2) Preference to rehabilitation
       A participating jurisdiction shall give preference to rehabilitation of substandard housing unless the jurisdiction determines that–
      (A) such rehabilitation is not the most cost effective way to meet the jurisdiction“s need to expand the supply of affordable housing; and
      (B) the jurisdiction“s housing needs cannot be met through rehabilitation of the available stock.
       The Secretary shall not restrict a participating jurisdiction“s choice of rehabilitation, substantial rehabilitation, new construction, reconstruction, acquisition, or other eligible housing use unless such restriction is explicitly authorized under section 12753(2) of this title.
    (3) Tenant-based rental assistance
      (A) In general
         A participating jurisdiction may use funds provided under this part for tenant-based rental assistance only if–
        (i) the jurisdiction certifies that the use of funds under this part for tenant-based rental assistance is an essential element of the jurisdiction“s annual housing strategy for expanding the supply, affordability, and availability of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing, and specifies the local market conditions that lead to the choice of this option; and
        (ii) the tenant-based rental assistance is provided in accordance with written tenant selection policies and criteria that are consistent with the purposes of providing housing to very low- and low-income families and are reasonably related to preference rules established under section 1437d(c)(4)(A) \1\N of this title.
      (B) Fair share not affected
         A jurisdiction“s section 8 [42 U.S.C. 1437f] fair share allocation shall be unaffected by the use of assistance under this subchapter.
      (C) 24-month contracts
         Rental assistance contracts made available with assistance under this subchapter shall be for not more than 24 months, except that assistance to a family may be renewed.
      (D) Use of section 1437f assistance
         In any case where assistance under section 1437f of this title becomes available to a participating jurisdiction, recipients of rental assistance under this subchapter shall qualify for tenant selection preferences to the same extent as when they received the rental assistance under this subchapter. A rental assistance program under this subchapter shall meet minimum criteria prescribed by the Secretary, such as housing quality standards and standards regarding the reasonableness of the rent.
      (E) Security deposit assistance
         A jurisdiction using funds provided under this part for tenant-based rental assistance may use such funds to provide loans or grants to very low- and low-income families for security deposits for rental of dwelling units. Assistance under this subparagraph does not preclude assistance under any other provision of this paragraph.
    (4) Redesignated (3)
    (5) Lead-based paint hazards
       A participating jurisdiction may use funds provided under this part for the evaluation and reduction of lead-based paint hazards, as defined in section 4851b of this title.
  (b) Investments
     Participating jurisdictions shall have discretion to invest funds made available under this part as equity investments, interest-bearing loans or advances, noninterest-bearing loans or advances, interest subsidies or other forms of assistance that the Secretary has determined to be consistent with the purposes of this subchapter. Each participating jurisdiction shall have the right to establish the terms of assistance.
  (c) Administrative costs
     In each fiscal year, each participating jurisdiction may use not more than 10 percent of the funds made available under this part to the jurisdiction for such year for any administrative and planning costs of the jurisdiction in carrying out this part, including the costs of the salaries of persons engaged in administering and managing activities assisted with funds made available under this part.
  (d) Prohibited uses
     Funds made available under this part may not be used to–
    (1) defray any administrative cost of a participating jurisdiction that exceed the amount specified under subsection (c) of this section,
    (2) provide tenant-based rental assistance for the special purposes of the existing section 8 [42 U.S.C. 1437f] program, including replacing public housing that is demolished or disposed of, preserving federally assisted housing, assisting in the disposition of housing owned or held by the Secretary, preventing displacement from rental rehabilitation projects, or extending or renewing tenant-based assistance under section 1437f of this title,
    (3) provide non-Federal matching contributions required under any other Federal program,
    (4) provide assistance authorized under section 1437g of this title,
    (5) carry out activities authorized under section 1437T3lK \1\ of this title, or
    (6) provide assistance to eligible low-income housing under the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 [12 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.].
  (e) Cost limits
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall establish limits on the amount of funds under this part that may be invested on a per unit basis. For multifamily housing, such limits shall not be less than the per unit dollar amount limitations set forth in section 1715T3lK(d)(3)(ii) of title 12, as such limitations may be adjusted in accordance therewith, except that for purposes of this subsection the Secretary shall, by regulation, increase the per unit dollar amount limitations in any geographical area by an amount, not to exceed 140 percent, that equals the amount by which the costs of multifamily housing construction in the area exceed the national average of such costs. The limits shall be established on a market-by-market basis, with adjustments made for number of bedrooms, and shall reflect the actual cost of new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of housing that meets applicable State and local housing and building codes and the cost of land, including necessary site improvements. Adjustments shall be made annually to reflect inflation. Separate limits may be set for different eligible activities.
    (2) Criteria
       In calculating per unit limits, the Secretary shall take into account that assistance under this subchapter is intended to–
      (A) provide nonluxury housing with suitable amenities;
      (B) operate effectively in all jurisdictions;
      (C) facilitate mixed-income housing; and
      (D) reflect the costs associated with meeting the special needs of tenants or homeowners that the housing is designed to serve.
    (3) Consultation
       In calculating cost limits, the Secretary shall consult with organizations that have expertise in the development of affordable housing, including national nonprofit organizations and national organizations representing private development firms and State and local governments.
  (f) Certification of compliance
     The requirements of section 3545(d) of this title shall be satisfied by a certification by a participating jurisdiction to the Secretary that the combination of Federal assistance provided to any housing project shall not be any more than is necessary to provide affordable housing.
  (g) Limitation on operating assistance
     A participating jurisdiction may not use more than 5 percent of its allocation under this part for the payment of operating expenses for community housing development organizations.
