   For purposes of this part:
  (1) The term ””applicant““ means the following entities that may represent the tenants of the housing:
    (A) A resident management corporation established in accordance with the requirements of the Secretary under section 1437r of this title.
    (B) A resident council.
    (C) A cooperative association.
    (D) A public or private nonprofit organization.
    (E) A public body (including an agency or instrumentality thereof).
    (F) A public housing agency (including an Indian housing authority).
    (G) A mutual housing association.
  (2) The term ””eligible family““ means a family or individual–
    (A) who is a tenant of the eligible property on the date the Secretary approves an implementation grant; or
    (B) whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary with adjustments for smaller and larger families.
  (3) The term ””eligible property““ means a multifamily rental property, containing 5 or more units, that is–
    (A) owned or held by the Secretary;
    (B) financed by a loan or mortgage held by the Secretary or insured by the Secretary;
    (C) determined by the Secretary to have serious physical or financial problems under the terms of an insurance or loan program administered by the Secretary; or
    (D) owned or held by the Secretary of Agriculture, the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, the General Services Administration, any other Federal agency, or a State or local government or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
  (4) The term ””homeownership program““ means a program for homeownership under this part.
  (5) The term ””Indian housing authority““ has the meaning given such term in section 1437a(b)(11) \1\N of this title.
  (6) The term ””low-income family““ has the meaning given such term in section 1437a(b)(2) of this title.
  (7) The term ””public housing agency““ has the meaning given such term in section 1437a(b)(6) of this title.
  (8) The term ””recipient““ means an applicant approved to receive a grant under this title \1\ or such other entity specified in the approved application that will assume the obligations of the recipient under this part.
  (9) The term ””resident council““ means any incorporated nonprofit organization or association that–
    (A) is representative of the tenants of the housing;
    (B) adopts written procedures providing for the election of officers on a regular basis; and
    (C) has a democratically elected governing board, elected by the tenants of the housing.
  (10) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
