   For purposes of this part:
  (1) Adjusted income
     The term ””adjusted income““ has the meaning given the term in section 1437a(b) of this title.
  (2) Applicant
     The term ””applicant““ means a public or private nonprofit agency, including–
    (A) a community-based organization;
    (B) an administrative entity designated under section 1513(b)(1)(B) of title 29;
    (C) a community action agency;
    (D) a State and local housing development agency;
    (E) a community development corporation;
    (F) a State and local youth service and conservation corps; and
    (G) any other entity eligible to provide education and employment training under other Federal employment training programs.
  (3) Community-based organization
     The term ””community-based organization““ means a private nonprofit organization that–
    (A) maintains, through significant representation on the organization“s governing board or otherwise, accountability to low-income community residents and, to the extent practicable, low-income beneficiaries of programs receiving assistance under this part; and
    (B) has a history of serving the local community or communities where a program receiving assistance under this part is located.
  (4) Homeless individual
     The term ””homeless individual““ has the meaning given the term in section 11302 of this title.
  (5) Housing development agency
     The term ””housing development agency““ means any agency of a State or local government, or any private nonprofit organization that is engaged in providing housing for homeless or low-income families.
  (6) Income
     The term ””income““ has the meaning given the term in section 1437a(b) of this title.
  (7) Indian tribe
     The term ””Indian tribe““ has the same meaning given such term in section 5302(a)(17) of this title.
  (8) Individual who has dropped out of high school
     The term ””individual who has dropped out of high school““ means an individual who is neither attending any school nor subject to a compulsory attendance law and who has not received a secondary school diploma or a certificate of equivalency for such diploma.
  (9) Institution of higher education
     The term ””institution of higher education““ has the meaning given the term in section 1141(a) of title 20.
  (10) Limited-English proficiency
     The term ””limited-English proficiency““ has the meaning given the term in section 7601(8) \1\N of title 20.
  (11) Low-income family
     The term ””low-income family““ has the meaning given the term in section 1437a(b) of this title.
  (12) Offender
     The term ””offender““ means any adult or juvenile with a record of arrest or conviction for a criminal offense.
  (13) Qualified nonprofit agency
     The term ””qualified public or private nonprofit agency““ means any nonprofit agency that has significant prior experience in the operation of projects similar to the Youthbuild program authorized under this part and that has the capacity to provide effective technical assistance.
  (14) Related facilities
     The term ””related facilities““ includes cafeterias or dining halls, community rooms or buildings, appropriate recreation facilities, and other essential service facilities.
  (15) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (16) State
     The term ””State““ means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (17) Transitional housing
     The term ””transitional housing““ means a project that has as its purpose facilitating the movement of homeless individuals and families to independent living within a reasonable amount of time. Transitional housing includes housing primarily designed to serve deinstitutionalized homeless individuals and other homeless individuals with mental or physical disabilities and homeless families with children.
  (18) Very low-income family
     The term ””very low-income family““ has the meaning given the term in section 1437a(b) of this title.
  (19) Youthbuild program
     The term ””Youthbuild program““ means any program that receives assistance under this part and provides disadvantaged youth with opportunities for employment, education, leadership development, and training in the construction or rehabilitation of housing for homeless individuals and members of low- and very low-income families.
