  (a) Eligible participants
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), an individual may participate in a Youthbuild program receiving assistance under this part only if such individual is–
      (A) 16 to 24 years of age, inclusive;
      (B) a very low-income individual or a member of a very low-income family; and
      (C) an individual who has dropped out of high school.
    (2) Exception for individuals not meeting income or educational need requirements
       Not more than 25 percent of the participants in such program may be individuals who do not meet the requirements of either paragraphs \1\N (1)(B) or (C), but who have educational needs despite attainment of a high school diploma or its equivalent.
    (3) Participation limitation
       Any eligible individual selected for full-time participation in a Youthbuild program may be offered full-time participation for a period of not less than 6 months and not more than 24 months.
  (b) Minimum time devoted to educational services and activities
     A Youthbuild program receiving assistance under this part shall be structured so that 50 percent of the time spent by participants in the program is devoted to educational services and activities, such as those specified in subparagraphs (B) through (F) \2\N of section 12899c(b)(4) of this title.
  (c) Authority restriction
     No provision of this part may be construed to authorize any agency, officer, or employee of the United States to exercise any direction, supervision, or control over the curriculum, program of instruction, administration, or personnel of any educational institution, school, or school system, or over the selection of library resources, textbooks, or other printed or published instructional materials by any educational institution or school system.
  (d) State and local standards
     All educational programs and activities supported with funds provided under this part shall be consistent with applicable State and local educational standards. Standards and procedures with respect to the awarding of academic credit and certifying educational attainment in such programs shall be consistent with applicable State and local educational standards.
  (e) Wages, labor standards, and nondiscrimination
     To the extent consistent with the provisions of this part, sections 142, 143 and 167 of the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1552, 1553, 1577], relating to wages and benefits, labor standards, and nondiscrimination, shall apply to the programs conducted under this part as if such programs were conducted under the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.]. This section may not be construed to prevent a recipient of a grant under this part from using funds from non-Federal sources to increase wages and benefits under such programs, if appropriate.
