   For purposes of this chapter:
  (1) The term ””acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases““ means the disease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or any conditions arising from the etiologic agent for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
  (2) The term ””applicant““ means a State, a unit of general local government, or a nonprofit organization eligible to receive assistance under this chapter.
  (3) The term ””low-income individual““ means any individual or family whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that the Secretary may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median income for the area if the Secretary finds that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes.
  (4) The term ””grantee““ means a State or unit of general local government receiving grants from the Secretary under this chapter.
  (5) The term ””metropolitan statistical area““ means a metropolitan statistical area as established by the Office of Management and Budget. Such term includes the District of Columbia.
  (6) The term ””locality““ means the geographical area within the jurisdiction of a local government.
  (7) The term ””recipient““ means a grantee or other applicant receiving funds under this chapter.\1\N
  (8) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (9) The term ””State““ means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any agency or instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive to act on behalf of the jurisdiction with regard to provisions of this chapter.
  (10) The term ””unit of general local government““ has the same meaning as in section 12704 of this title.
  (11) The term ””city““ has the meaning given the term in section 5302(a) of this title.
  (12) The term ””eligible person““ means a person with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or a related disease and the family of such person.
  (13) The term ””nonprofit organization““ means any nonprofit organization (including a State or locally chartered, nonprofit organization) that–
    (A) is organized under State or local laws;
    (B) has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
    (C) complies with standards of financial accountability acceptable to the Secretary; and
    (D) has among its purposes significant activities related to providing services or housing to persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases.
  (14) The term ””project sponsor““ means a nonprofit organization or a housing agency of a State or unit of general local government that contracts with a grantee to receive assistance under this chapter.
