   For purposes of this part:
  (1) Code set
     The term ””code set““ means any set of codes used for encoding data elements, such as tables of terms, medical concepts, medical diagnostic codes, or medical procedure codes.
  (2) Health care clearinghouse
     The term ””health care clearinghouse““ means a public or private entity that processes or facilitates the processing of nonstandard data elements of health information into standard data elements.
  (3) Health care provider
     The term ””health care provider““ includes a provider of services (as defined in section 1395x(u) of this title), a provider of medical or other health services (as defined in section 1395x(s) of this title), and any other person furnishing health care services or supplies.
  (4) Health information
     The term ””health information““ means any information, whether oral or recorded in any form or medium, that–
    (A) is created or received by a health care provider, health plan, public health authority, employer, life insurer, school or university, or health care clearinghouse; and
    (B) relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, the provision of health care to an individual, or the past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual.
  (5) Health plan
     The term ””health plan““ means an individual or group plan that provides, or pays the cost of, medical care (as such term is defined in section 300gg–91 of this title). Such term includes the following, and any combination thereof:
    (A) A group health plan (as defined in section 300gg–91(a) of this title), but only if the plan–
      (i) has 50 or more participants (as defined in section 1002(7) of title 29); or
      (ii) is administered by an entity other than the employer who established and maintains the plan.
    (B) A health insurance issuer (as defined in section 300gg–91(b) of this title).
    (C) A health maintenance organization (as defined in section 300gg–91(b) of this title).
    (D) Part A or part B of the Medicare program under subchapter XVIII of this chapter.
    (E) The medicaid program under subchapter XIX of this chapter.
    (F) A Medicare supplemental policy (as defined in section 1395ss(g)(1) of this title).
    (G) A long-term care policy, including a nursing home fixed indemnity policy (unless the Secretary determines that such a policy does not provide sufficiently comprehensive coverage of a benefit so that the policy should be treated as a health plan).
    (H) An employee welfare benefit plan or any other arrangement which is established or maintained for the purpose of offering or providing health benefits to the employees of 2 or more employers.
    (I) The health care program for active military personnel under title 10.
    (J) The veterans health care program under chapter 17 of title 38.
    (K) The Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS), as defined in section 1072(4) of title 10.
    (L) The Indian health service program under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
    (M) The Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan under chapter 89 of title 5.
  (6) Individually identifiable health information
     The term ””individually identifiable health information““ means any information, including demographic information collected from an individual, that–
    (A) is created or received by a health care provider, health plan, employer, or health care clearinghouse; and
    (B) relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, the provision of health care to an individual, or the past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual, and–
      (i) identifies the individual; or
      (ii) with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe that the information can be used to identify the individual.
  (7) Standard
     The term ””standard““, when used with reference to a data element of health information or a transaction referred to in section 1320d–2(a)(1) of this title, means any such data element or transaction that meets each of the standards and implementation specifications adopted or established by the Secretary with respect to the data element or transaction under sections 1320d–1 through 1320d–3 of this title.
  (8) Standard setting organization
     The term ””standard setting organization““ means a standard setting organization accredited by the American National Standards Institute, including the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs, that develops standards for information transactions, data elements, or any other standard that is necessary to, or will facilitate, the implementation of this part.
