  (a) Report
     Not later than one year after October 24, 1992, and biennially thereafter, the Postmaster General shall submit a report to the Congress on the Postal Service“s alternative fueled vehicle program. The report shall contain information on–
    (1) the total number and type of alternative fueled vehicles procured prior to October 24, 1992 (first report only);
    (2) the number and type of alternative fueled vehicles procured in the preceding year;
    (3) the location of alternative fueled vehicles by region;
    (4) arrangements with commercial entities for purposes of refueling and maintenance;
    (5) future alternative fuel procurement and placement strategy;
    (6) the difference in cost between the purchase, maintenance, and operation of alternative fueled vehicles and the purchase, maintenance, and operation of comparable conventionally fueled motor vehicles;
    (7) the percentage of alternative fuel use in dual-fueled vehicles procured by the Postmaster General;
    (8) promotions and incentives to encourage the use of alternative fuels in dual-fueled vehicles; and
    (9) an assessment of the program“s relative success and policy recommendations for strengthening the program.
  (b) Coordination
     To the maximum extent practicable, the Postmaster General shall coordinate the Postal Service“s alternative fueled vehicle procurement, placement, refueling, and maintenance programs with those at the Federal, State, and local level. The Postmaster General shall communicate, share, and disseminate, on a regular basis, information on such programs with the Secretary, the Administrator of General Services, and heads of appropriate Federal agencies.
  (c) Program criteria
     The Postmaster General shall consider the following criteria in the procurement and placement of alternative fueled vehicles:
    (1) The procurement plans of State and local governments and other public and private institutions.
    (2) The current and future availability of refueling and repair facilities.
    (3) The reduction in emissions of the Postal fleet.
    (4) Whether the vehicle is to be used in a nonattainment area as specified in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.
    (5) The operational requirements of the Postal fleet.
    (6) The contribution to the reduction in the consumption of oil in the transportation sector.
