  (a) Cooperative agreements and joint ventures
    (1) The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary, may enter into cooperative agreements and joint ventures proposed by any municipal, county, or regional transit authority in an urban area with a population over 100,000 (according to latest available census information) to demonstrate the feasibility of commercial application, including safety of specific vehicle design, of using alternative fuels for urban buses and other motor vehicles used for mass transit.
    (2) The cooperative agreements and joint ventures under paragraph (1) may include interested or affected private firms willing to provide assistance in cash, or in kind, for any such demonstration.
    (3) Federal assistance provided under cooperative agreements and joint ventures entered into under paragraph (1) to demonstrate the feasibility of commercial application of using alternative fuels for urban buses shall be in addition to Federal assistance provided under any other law for such purpose.
  (b) Limitations
    (1) The Secretary of Transportation may not enter into cooperative agreement or joint venture under subsection (a) of this section with any municipal, county, or regional transit authority, unless such government body agrees to provide 20 percent of the costs of such demonstration.
    (2) The Secretary of Transportation may grant such priority under this section to any entity that demonstrates that the use of alternative fuels for transportation would have a significant beneficial effect on the environment.
  (c) School buses
     The Secretary of Transportation may also provide, in accordance with such rules as he may prescribe, financial assistance to any agency, municipality, or political subdivision in an urban area referred to in subsection (a) of this section, of any State or the District of Columbia for the purpose of meeting the incremental costs of school buses that are dedicated vehicles and used regularly for such transportation during the school term. Such costs may include the purchase and installation of alternative fuel refueling facilities to be used for school bus refueling, and the conversion of school buses to dedicated vehicles. The Secretary of Transportation may provide such assistance directly to a person who is a contractor of such agency, municipality, or political subdivision, upon the request of the agency, municipality, or political subdivision, and who, under such contract, provides for such transportation. Any conversion under this subsection shall comply with the warranty and safety requirements for alternative fuel conversions contained in section 7587 \1\N of this title.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated not more than $30,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995 for purposes of this section.
