  (a) National inventory
     Not later than one year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary, through the Energy Information Administration, shall develop, based on data available to, and obtained by, the Energy Information Administration, an inventory of the national aggregate emissions of each greenhouse gas for each calendar year of the baseline period of 1987 through 1990. The Administrator of the Energy Information Administration shall annually update and analyze such inventory using available data. This subsection does not provide any new data collection authority.
  (b) Voluntary reporting
    (1) Issuance of guidelines
       Not later than 18 months after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall, after opportunity for public comment, issue guidelines for the voluntary collection and reporting of information on sources of greenhouse gases. Such guidelines shall establish procedures for the accurate voluntary reporting of information on–
      (A) greenhouse gas emissions–
        (i) for the baseline period of 1987 through 1990; and
        (ii) for subsequent calendar years on an annual basis;
      (B) annual reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon fixation achieved through any measures, including fuel switching, forest management practices, tree planting, use of renewable energy, manufacture or use of vehicles with reduced greenhouse gas emissions, appliance efficiency, energy efficiency, methane recovery, cogeneration, chlorofluorocarbon capture and replacement, and power plant heat rate improvement;
      (C) reductions in greenhouse gas emissions achieved as a result of–
        (i) voluntary reductions;
        (ii) plant or facility closings; and
        (iii) State or Federal requirements; and
      (D) an aggregate calculation of greenhouse gas emissions by each reporting entity.
       Such guidelines shall also establish procedures for taking into account the differential radiative activity and atmospheric lifetimes of each greenhouse gas.
    (2) Reporting procedures
       The Administrator of the Energy Information Administration shall develop forms for voluntary reporting under the guidelines established under paragraph (1), and shall make such forms available to entities wishing to report such information. Persons reporting under this subsection shall certify the accuracy of the information reported.
    (3) Confidentiality
       Trade secret and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential shall be protected as provided in section 552(b)(4) of title 5.
    (4) Establishment of data base
       Not later than 18 months after October 24, 1992, the Secretary, through the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, shall establish a data base comprised of information voluntarily reported under this subsection. Such information may be used by the reporting entity to demonstrate achieved reductions of greenhouse gases.
  (c) Consultation
     In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
