  (a) Program
     The Secretary shall conduct a fusion energy 5-year program, in accordance with sections 13541 and 13542 of this title, that by the year 2010 will result in a technology demonstration which verifies the practicability of commercial electric power production.
  (b) Program goals
     The goals of the program established under subsection (a) of this section shall include–
    (1) a broad based fusion energy program;
    (2) United States participation in the Engineering Design Activity of the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) program and in the related research and technology development efforts;
    (3) the development of technology for fusion power and industrial participation in the development of such technology;
    (4) the design and construction of a major new machine for fusion research and technology development consistent with paragraphs (2) and (3); and
    (5) research and development for Inertial Confinement Fusion Energy and development of a Heavy Ion Inertial Confinement Fusion experiment.
  (c) Management plan
    (1) Within 180 days after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall prepare a comprehensive management plan for the fusion energy program. The plan shall include specific program objectives, milestones and schedules for technology development, and cost estimates and program management resource requirements.
    (2) The plan shall also include a description of–
      (A) United States participation in the Engineering Design Activity of ITER, including industrial participation;
      (B) potential United States participation in the construction and operation of an ITER facility; and
      (C) the requirements needed to build and test an inertial fusion energy reactor for the purpose of power production.
    (3) As part of the plan required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall evaluate the status of international fusion programs and evaluate whether the Federal Government should initiate efforts to strengthen existing international cooperative agreements in fusion energy or enter into new cooperative agreements to accomplish the purposes of this section.
    (4) The plan shall also evaluate the extent to which university or private sector participation is appropriate or necessary in order to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (5) The President shall include in the budget submitted to the Congress each year under section 1105 of title 31 a report prepared by the Secretary describing the progress made in meeting the program objectives, milestones, and schedules established in the management plan. Each such report shall also describe the organization of the program, the personnel assigned and funds committed to the program, and expenditures made in carrying out the program objectives. The report shall be submitted with the plan required under section 13523 of this title.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section $339,710,000 for fiscal year 1993 and $380,000,000 for fiscal year 1994.
