  (a) Program direction
     The Secretary shall establish a 5-year National Advanced Materials Program, in accordance with sections 13541 and 13542 of this title. Such program shall foster the commercialization of techniques for processing, synthesizing, fabricating, and manufacturing advanced materials and associated components. At a minimum, the Program shall expedite the private sector deployment of advanced materials for use in high performance energy efficient and renewable energy technologies in the industrial, transportation, and buildings sectors that can foster economic growth and competitiveness. The Program shall include field demonstrations of sufficient scale and number to prove technical and economic feasibility.
  (b) Program plan
     Within 180 days after October 24, 1992, the Secretary, in consultation with appropriate representatives of industry, institutions of higher education, Department of Energy national laboratories, and professional and technical societies, shall prepare and submit to the Congress a 5-year program plan to guide activities under this section. The Secretary shall biennially update and resubmit the program plan to Congress.
  (c) Proposals
    (1) Solicitation
       Within 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall solicit proposals for conducting activities consistent with the 5-year program plan. Such proposals may be submitted by one or more parties.
    (2) Contents of proposals
       Proposals submitted under this subsection shall include–
      (A) an explanation of how the proposal will expedite the commercialization of advanced materials in energy efficiency or renewable energy in the near-term to mid-term;
      (B) evidence of consideration of whether the unique capabilities of Department of Energy national laboratories warrants collaboration with such laboratories, and the extent of such collaboration proposed;
      (C) a description of the extent to which the proposal includes collaboration with relevant industry or other groups or organizations; and
      (D) evidence of the ability of the proposers to undertake and complete the proposed project.
  (d) General Services Administration demonstration program
     The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services, shall establish a program to expedite the use, in goods and services acquired by the General Services Administration, of advanced materials technologies. Such program shall include a demonstration of the use of advanced materials technologies as may be necessary to establish technical and economic feasibility. The Secretary shall transfer funds to the General Services Administration for carrying out this subsection.
  (e) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section such sums as may be necessary, to be derived for energy efficient applications from section 13451(e) of this title and for renewable applications from section 13471(c) of this title, including Department of Energy national laboratory participation in proposals submitted under subsection (c) of this section, and including transferring funds to the General Services Administration.
