  (a) Payment and use
    (1) Payment
       The Attorney General,\1\N shall pay to each unit of general local government which qualifies for a payment under this part an amount equal to the sum of any amounts allocated to the government under this part for each payment period. The Attorney General shall pay such amount from amounts appropriated under section 13752 of this title.
    (2) Use
       Amounts paid to a unit of general local government under this section shall be used by that unit for carrying out one or more of the following purposes:
      (A) Education, training, research, prevention, diversion, treatment, and rehabilitation programs to prevent juvenile violence, juvenile gangs, and the use and sale of illegal drugs by juveniles.
      (B) Programs to prevent crimes against the elderly based on the concepts of the Triad model.
      (C) Programs that prevent young children from becoming gang involved, including the award of grants or contracts to community-based service providers that have a proven track record of providing services to children ages 5 to 18.
      (D) Saturation jobs programs, offered either separately or in conjunction with the services provided for under the Youth Fair Chance Program, that provide employment opportunities leading to permanent unsubsidized employment for disadvantaged young adults 16 through 25 years of age.
      (E) Midnight sports league programs that shall require each player in the league to attend employment counseling, job training, and other educational classes provided under the program, which shall be held in conjunction with league sports games at or near the site of the games.
      (F) Supervised sports and recreation programs, including Olympic Youth Development Centers established in cooperation with the United States Olympic Committee, that are offered–
        (i) after school and on weekends and holidays, during the school year; and
        (ii) as daily (or weeklong) full-day programs (to the extent available resources permit) or as part-day programs, during the summer months.
      (G) Prevention and enforcement programs to reduce–
        (i) the formation or continuation of juvenile gangs; and
        (ii) the use and sale of illegal drugs by juveniles.
      (H) Youth anticrime councils to give intermediate and secondary school students a structured forum through which to work with community organizations, law enforcement officials, government and media representatives, and school administrators and faculty to address issues regarding youth and violence.
      (I) Award of grants or contracts to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, a national nonprofit youth organization, to establish Boys and Girls Clubs in public housing.
      (J) Supervised visitation centers for children who have been removed from their parents and placed outside the home as a result of abuse or neglect or other risk of harm to them and for children whose parents are separated or divorced and the children are at risk because–
        (i) there is documented sexual, physical, or emotional abuse as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction;
        (ii) there is suspected or elevated risk of sexual, physical, or emotional abuse, or there have been threats of parental abduction of the child;
        (iii) due to domestic violence, there is an ongoing risk of harm to a parent or child;
        (iv) a parent is impaired because of substance abuse or mental illness;
        (v) there are allegations that a child is at risk for any of the reasons stated in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv), pending an investigation of the allegations; or
        (vi) other circumstances, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, point to the existence of such a risk.
      (K) Family Outreach Teams which provide a youth worker, a parent worker, and a school-parent organizer to provide training in outreach, mentoring, community organizing and peer counseling and mentoring to locally recruited volunteers in a particular area.
      (L) To establish corridors of safety for senior citizens by increasing the numbers, presence, and watchfulness of law enforcement officers, community groups, and business owners and employees.
      (M) Teams or units involving both specially trained law enforcement professionals and child or family services professionals that on a 24-hour basis respond to or deal with violent incidents in which a child is involved as a perpetrator, witness, or victim.
      (N) Dwelling units to law enforcement officers without charge or at a substantially reduced rent for the purpose of providing greater security for residents of high crime areas.
  (b) Timing of payments
     The Attorney General shall pay each amount allocated under this part to a unit of general local government for a payment period by the later of 90 days after the date the amount is available or the first day of the payment period if the unit of general local government has provided the Attorney General with the assurances required by section 13753(d) of this title.
  (c) Adjustments
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall adjust a payment under this part to a unit of general local government to the extent that a prior payment to the government was more or less than the amount required to be paid.
    (2) Considerations
       The Attorney General may increase or decrease under this subsection a payment to a unit of general local government only if the Attorney General determines the need for the increase or decrease, or the unit requests the increase or decrease, within one year after the end of the payment period for which the payment was made.
  (d) Reservation for adjustments
     The Attorney General may reserve a percentage of not more than 2 percent of the amount under this section for a payment period for all units of general local government in a State if the Attorney General considers the reserve is necessary to ensure the availability of sufficient amounts to pay adjustments after the final allocation of amounts among the units of general local government in the State.
  (e) Repayment of unexpended amounts
    (1) Repayment required
       A unit of general local government shall repay to the Attorney General, by not later than 15 months after receipt from the Attorney General, any amount that is–
      (A) paid to the unit from amounts appropriated under the authority of this section; and
      (B) not expended by the unit within one year after receipt from the Attorney General.
    (2) Penalty for failure to repay
       If the amount required to be repaid is not repaid, the Attorney General shall reduce payments in future payment periods accordingly.
    (3) Deposit of amounts repaid
       Amounts received by the Attorney General as repayments under this subsection shall be deposited in a designated fund for future payments to units of general local government.
  (f) Nonsupplanting requirement
     Funds made available under this part to units of local government shall not be used to supplant State or local funds, but will be used to increase the amount of funds that would, in the absence of funds under this part, be made available from State or local sources.
