  (a) Prohibition
    (1) In general
       No person shall sell for use in the United States a regulated battery that is ready for retail sale or a rechargeable consumer product that is ready for retail sale, if such battery or product was manufactured on or after the date 12 months after May 13, 1996, unless the labeling requirements of subsection (b) of this section are met and, in the case of a regulated battery, the regulated battery–
      (A) is easily removable from the rechargeable consumer product; or
      (B) is sold separately.
    (2) Application
       Paragraph (1) does not apply to any of the following:
      (A) The sale of a remanufactured product unit unless paragraph (1) applied to the sale of the unit when originally manufactured.
      (B) The sale of a product unit intended for export purposes only.
  (b) Labeling
     Each regulated battery or rechargeable consumer product without an easily removable battery manufactured on or after the date that is 1 year after May 13, 1996, whether produced domestically or imported shall bear the following labels:
    (1) 3 chasing arrows or a comparable recycling symbol.
    (2)      (A) On each regulated battery which is a nickel-cadmium battery, the chemical name or the abbreviation ””Ni-Cd““ and the phrase ””BATTERY MUST BE RECYCLED OR DISPOSED OF PROPERLY.““.
      (B) On each regulated battery which is a lead-acid battery, ””Pb““ or the words ””LEAD““, ””RETURN““, and ””RECYCLE““ and if the regulated battery is sealed, the phrase ””BATTERY MUST BE RECYCLED.““.
    (3) On each rechargeable consumer product containing a regulated battery that is not easily removable, the phrase ””CONTAINS NICKEL-CADMIUM BATTERY. BATTERY MUST BE RECYCLED OR DISPOSED OF PROPERLY.““ or ””CONTAINS SEALED LEAD BATTERY. BATTERY MUST BE RECYCLED.““, as applicable.
    (4) On the packaging of each rechargeable consumer product, and the packaging of each regulated battery sold separately from such a product, unless the required label is clearly visible through the packaging, the phrase ””CONTAINS NICKEL-CADMIUM BATTERY. BATTERY MUST BE RECYCLED OR DISPOSED OF PROPERLY.““ or ””CONTAINS SEALED LEAD BATTERY. BATTERY MUST BE RECYCLED.““, as applicable.
  (c) Existing or alternative labeling
    (1) Initial period
       For a period of 2 years after May 13, 1996, regulated batteries, rechargeable consumer products containing regulated batteries, and rechargeable consumer product packages that are labeled in substantial compliance with subsection (b) of this section shall be deemed to comply with the labeling requirements of subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) Certification
      (A) In general
         On application by persons subject to the labeling requirements of subsection (b) of this section or the labeling requirements promulgated by the Administrator under subsection (d) of this section, the Administrator shall certify that a different label meets the requirements of subsection (b) or (d) of this section, respectively, if the different label–
        (i) conveys the same information as the label required under subsection (b) or (d) of this section, respectively; or
        (ii) conforms with a recognized international standard that is consistent with the overall purposes of this subchapter.
      (B) Constructive certification
         Failure of the Administrator to object to an application under subparagraph (A) on the ground that a different label does not meet either of the conditions described in subparagraph (A)(i) or (ii) within 120 days after the date on which the application is made shall constitute certification for the purposes of this chapter.
  (d) Rulemaking authority of Administrator
    (1) In general
       If the Administrator determines that other rechargeable batteries having electrode chemistries different from regulated batteries are toxic and may cause substantial harm to human health and the environment if discarded into the solid waste stream for land disposal or incineration, the Administrator may, with the advice and counsel of State regulatory authorities and manufacturers of rechargeable batteries and rechargeable consumer products, and after public comment–
      (A) promulgate labeling requirements for the batteries with different electrode chemistries, rechargeable consumer products containing such batteries that are not easily removable batteries, and packaging for the batteries and products; and
      (B) promulgate requirements for easy removability of regulated batteries from rechargeable consumer products designed to contain such batteries.
    (2) Substantial similarity
       The regulations promulgated under paragraph (1) shall be substantially similar to the requirements set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
  (e) Uniformity
     After the effective dates of a requirement set forth in subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section or a regulation promulgated by the Administrator under subsection (d) of this section, no Federal agency, State, or political subdivision of a State may enforce any easy removability or environmental labeling requirement for a rechargeable battery or rechargeable consumer product that is not identical to the requirement or regulation.
  (f) Exemptions
    (1) In general
       With respect to any rechargeable consumer product, any person may submit an application to the Administrator for an exemption from the requirements of subsection (a) of this section in accordance with the procedures under paragraph (2). The application shall include the following information:
      (A) A statement of the specific basis for the request for the exemption.
      (B) The name, business address, and telephone number of the applicant.
    (2) Granting of exemption
       Not later than 60 days after receipt of an application under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall approve or deny the application. On approval of the application the Administrator shall grant an exemption to the applicant. The exemption shall be issued for a period of time that the Administrator determines to be appropriate, except that the period shall not exceed 2 years. The Administrator shall grant an exemption on the basis of evidence supplied to the Administrator that the manufacturer has been unable to commence manufacturing the rechargeable consumer product in compliance with the requirements of this section and with an equivalent level of product performance without the product–
      (A) posing a threat to human health, safety, or the environment; or
      (B) violating requirements for approvals from governmental agencies or widely recognized private standard-setting organizations (including Underwriters Laboratories).
    (3) Renewal of exemption
       A person granted an exemption under paragraph (2) may apply for a renewal of the exemption in accordance with the requirements and procedures described in paragraphs (1) and (2). The Administrator may grant a renewal of such an exemption for a period of not more than 2 years after the date of the granting of the renewal.
