  (a) Authority of Secretary; interest rates; repayment date; use as security for obligations of public housing agency
     The Secretary may make loans or commitments to make loans to public housing agencies to help finance or refinance the development, acquisition, or operation of low-income housing projects by such agencies. Any contract for such loans and any amendment to a contract for such loans shall provide that such loans shall bear interest at a rate specified by the Secretary which shall not be less than a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods to maturity comparable to the average maturities of such loans, plus one-eighth of 1 per centum. Such loans shall be secured in such manner and shall be repaid within such period not exceeding forty years, or not exceeding forty years from the date of the bonds evidencing the loan, as the Secretary may determine. The Secretary may require loans or commitments to make loans under this section to be pledged as security for obligations issued by a public housing agency in connection with a low-income housing project.
  (b) Issuance of obligations by Secretary; limitation on amounts; forms and denominations; terms and conditions; purchase, establishment of maturities and rates of interest, and sale by Secretary of the Treasury
     The Secretary may issue and have outstanding at any one time notes and other obligations for purchase by the Secretary of the Treasury in an amount which will not, unless authorized by the President, exceed $1,500,000,000. For the purpose of determining obligations incurred to make loans pursuant to this chapter against any limitation otherwise applicable with respect to such loans, the Secretary shall estimate the maximum amount to be loaned at any one time pursuant to loan agreements then outstanding with public housing agencies. Such notes or other obligations shall be in such forms and denominations and shall be subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. The notes or other obligations issued under this subsection shall have such maturities and bear such rate or rates of interest as shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to purchase any notes or other obligations of the Secretary issued hereunder and for such purpose is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under such chapter are extended to include any purchases of such obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired by him under this section. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States.
  (c) Public and Indian housing financing reforms
    (1) At such times as the Secretary may determine, and in accordance with such accounting and other procedures as the Secretary may prescribe, each loan made by the Secretary under subsection (a) of this section that has any principal amount outstanding or any interest amount outstanding or accrued shall be forgiven; and the terms and conditions of any contract, or any amendment to a contract, for such loan with respect to any promise to repay such principal and interest shall be canceled. Such cancellation shall not affect any other terms and conditions of such contract, which shall remain in effect as if the cancellation had not occurred. This paragraph shall not apply to any loan the repayment of which was not to be made using annual contributions, or to any loan all or part of the proceeds of which are due a public housing agency from contractors or others.
    (2)      (A) On April 7, 1986, each note or other obligation issued by the Secretary to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, together with any promise to repay the principal and unpaid interest that has accrued on each note or obligation, shall be forgiven; and any other term or condition specified by each such obligation shall be canceled.
      (B) On September 30, 1986, and on any subsequent September 30, each such note or other obligation issued by the Secretary to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to subsection (b) of this section during the fiscal year ending on such date, together with any promise to repay the principal and unpaid interest that has accrued on each note or obligation, shall be forgiven; and any other term or condition specified by each such obligation shall be canceled.
    (3) Any amount of budget authority (and contract authority) that becomes available during any fiscal year as a result of the forgiveness of any loan, note, or obligation under this subsection shall be rescinded.
