   As used in this subchapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
  (a) The term ””governing body of the municipality or county““ means the governing body of the city, village, or other municipality having general governmental authority over the area in which the housing involved is located or, if the housing is not located in such a municipality, the term means the governing body of the county or parish in which the housing is located, or if the housing is located in the District of Columbia the term means the Council of the District of Columbia.
  (b) The term ””housing““ means any housing under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (including trailers and other mobile or portable housing) constructed, acquired, or made available under subchapters II to VII of this chapter or Public Law 781, Seventy-sixth Congress, approved September 9, 1940, or Public Laws 9, 73, or 353, Seventy-seventh Congress, approved, respectively, March 1, 1941, May 24, 1941, and December 17, 1941, or any other law, and includes in addition to dwellings any structures, appurtenances, and other property, real or personal, acquired for or held in connection therewith.
  (c) The term ””temporary housing““ means any housing (as defined in (b)) which the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development has determined to be ””of a temporary character““ pursuant to subchapters II to VII of this chapter and shall also include any such housing after rights thereto have been relinquished or transferred under this subchapter or section 1575 of this title.
  (d) The terms ””veteran““ and ””serviceman““ mean ””veteran““ and ””serviceman““ as those terms are defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.].
  (e) The term ””State““ means any State, Territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
  (f) The term ””going Federal rate of interest““ means ””going Federal rate““ as that term is defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.].
  (g) The term ””United States Housing Act of 1937““ [42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.] means the provisions of that Act, including all amendments thereto, now or hereafter adopted, except provisions relating to the initial construction of a project or dwelling units.
