  (a) Nutritional standards; medical and special dietary needs of individual students; compliance assistance; fluid milk; acceptance of offered foods
    (1)      (A) Lunches served by schools participating in the school lunch program under this chapter shall meet minimum nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary on the basis of tested nutritional research, except that the minimum nutritional requirements–
        (i) shall not be construed to prohibit the substitution of foods to accommodate the medical or other special dietary needs of individual students; and
        (ii) shall, at a minimum, be based on the weekly average of the nutrient content of school lunches.
      (B) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance and training, including technical assistance and training in the preparation of lower-fat versions of foods commonly used in the school lunch program under this chapter, to schools participating in the school lunch program to assist the schools in complying with the nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to subparagraph (A) and in providing appropriate meals to children with medically certified special dietary needs. The Secretary shall provide additional technical assistance to schools that are having difficulty maintaining compliance with the requirements.
    (2) Lunches served by schools participating in the school lunch program under this chapter–
      (A) shall offer students fluid milk; and
      (B) shall offer students a variety of fluid milk consistent with prior year preferences unless the prior year preference for any such variety of fluid milk is less than 1 percent of the total milk consumed at the school.
    (3) Students in senior high schools that participate in the school lunch program under this chapter (and, when approved by the local school district or nonprofit private schools, students in any other grade level) shall not be required to accept offered foods they do not intend to consume, and any such failure to accept offered foods shall not affect the full charge to the student for a lunch meeting the requirements of this subsection or the amount of payments made under this chapter to any such school for such lunch.
  (b) Income eligibility guidelines for free and reduced price school lunches; duty of Secretary; time to prescribe; relationship to other poverty guidelines; revision; publication; application, verification and approval; use or disclosure of eligibility information; maximum reduced price; nondiscrimination or identification of recipients
    (1)      (A) Not later than June 1 of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall prescribe income guidelines for determining eligibility for free and reduced price lunches during the 12-month period beginning July 1 of such fiscal year and ending June 30 of the following fiscal year. The income guidelines for determining eligibility for free lunches shall be 130 percent of the applicable family size income levels contained in the nonfarm income poverty guidelines prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget, as adjusted annually in accordance with subparagraph (B). The income guidelines for determining eligibility for reduced price lunches for any school year shall be 185 percent of the applicable family size income levels contained in the nonfarm income poverty guidelines prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget, as adjusted annually in accordance with subparagraph (B). The Office of Management and Budget guidelines shall be revised at annual intervals, or at any shorter interval deemed feasible and desirable.
      (B) The revision required by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be made by multiplying–
        (i) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget); by
        (ii) the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index during the annual or other interval immediately preceding the time at which the adjustment is made.
           Revisions under this subparagraph shall be made not more than 30 days after the date on which the consumer price index data required to compute the adjustment becomes available.
    (2)      (A) Following the determination by the Secretary under paragraph (1) of this subsection of the income eligibility guidelines for each school year, each State educational agency shall announce the income eligibility guidelines, by family size, to be used by schools in the State in making determinations of eligibility for free and reduced price lunches. Local school authorities shall, each year, publicly announce the income eligibility guidelines for free and reduced price lunches on or before the opening of school.
      (B) Applications for free and reduced price lunches, in such form as the Secretary may prescribe or approve, and any descriptive material, shall be distributed to the parents or guardians of children in attendance at the school, and shall contain only the family size income levels for reduced price meal eligibility with the explanation that households with incomes less than or equal to these values would be eligible for free or reduced price lunches. Such forms and descriptive material may not contain the income eligibility guidelines for free lunches.
      (C)        (i) Except as provided in clause (ii), each eligibility determination shall be made on the basis of a complete application executed by an adult member of the household. The Secretary, State, or local food authority may verify any data contained in such application. A local school food authority shall undertake such verification of information contained in any such application as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe and, in accordance with such regulations, shall make appropriate changes in the eligibility determination with respect to such application on the basis of such verification.
        (ii) Subject to clause (iii), any school food authority may certify any child as eligible for free or reduced price lunches or breakfasts, without further application, by directly communicating with the appropriate State or local agency to obtain documentation of such child“s status as a member of–
          (I) a household that is receiving food stamps under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 [7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.]; or
          (II) a family that is receiving assistance under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.] that the Secretary determines complies with standards established by the Secretary that ensure that the standards under the State program are comparable to or more restrictive than those in effect on June 1, 1995.
        (iii) The use or disclosure of any information obtained from an application for free or reduced price meals, or from a State or local agency referred to in clause (ii), shall be limited to–
          (I) a person directly connected with the administration or enforcement of this chapter or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), or a regulation issued pursuant to either this chapter or such Act;
          (II) a person directly connected with the administration or enforcement of–
            (aa) a Federal education program;
            (bb) a State health or education program administered by the State or local educational agency (other than a program carried out under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.)); or
            (cc) a Federal, State, or local means-tested nutrition program with eligibility standards comparable to the program under this section; and
          (III)            (aa) the Comptroller General of the United States for audit and examination authorized by any other provision of law; and
            (bb) notwithstanding any other provision of law, a Federal, State, or local law enforcement official for the purpose of investigating an alleged violation of any program covered by paragraph (1) or this paragraph.
        (iv) Information provided under clause (iii)(II) shall be limited to the income eligibility status of the child for whom application for free or reduced price meal benefits was made or for whom eligibility information was provided under clause (ii), unless the consent of the parent or guardian of the child for whom application for benefits was made is obtained.
        (v) A person described in clause (iii) who publishes, divulges, discloses, or makes known in any manner, or to any extent not authorized by Federal law (including a regulation), any information obtained under this subsection shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.
      (D) T4Free and reduced price policy statementK.–After the initial submission, a school food authority shall not be required to submit a free and reduced price policy statement to a State educational agency under this chapter unless there is a substantive change in the free and reduced price policy of the school food authority. A routine change in the policy of a school food authority, such as an annual adjustment of the income eligibility guidelines for free and reduced price meals, shall not be sufficient cause for requiring the school food authority to submit a policy statement.
    (3) Any child who is a member of a household whose income, at the time the application is submitted, is at an annual rate which does not exceed the applicable family size income level of the income eligibility guidelines for free lunches, as determined under paragraph (1), shall be served a free lunch. Any child who is a member of a household whose income, at the time the application is submitted, is at an annual rate greater than the applicable family size income level of the income eligibility guidelines for free lunches, as determined under paragraph (1), but less than or equal to the applicable family size income level of the income eligibility guidelines for reduced price lunches, as determined under paragraph (1), shall be served a reduced price lunch. The price charged for a reduced price lunch shall not exceed 40 cents.
    (4) No physical segregation of or other discrimination against any child eligible for a free lunch or a reduced price lunch under this subsection shall be made by the school nor shall there by \1\N any overt identification of any child by special tokens or tickets, announced or published lists of names, or by other means.
    (5) Any child who has a parent or guardian who (A) is responsible for the principal support of such child and (B) is unemployed shall be served a free or reduced price lunch, respectively, during any period (i) in which such child“s parent or guardian continues to be unemployed and (ii) the income of the child“s parents or guardians during such period of unemployment falls within the income eligibility criteria for free lunches or reduced price lunches, respectively, based on the current rate of income of such parents or guardians. Local school authorities shall publicly announce that such children are eligible for a free or reduced price lunch, and shall make determinations with respect to the status of any parent or guardian of any child under clauses (A) and (B) of the preceding sentence on the basis of a statement executed in such form as the Secretary may prescribe by such parent or guardian. No physical segregation of, or other discrimination against, any child eligible for a free or reduced price lunch under this paragraph shall be made by the school nor shall there be any overt identification of any such child by special tokens or tickets, announced or published lists of names, or by any other means.
    (6)      (A) A child shall be considered automatically eligible for a free lunch and breakfast under this chapter and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), respectively, without further application or eligibility determination, if the child is–
        (i) a member of a household receiving assistance under the food stamp program authorized under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.);
        (ii) a member of a family (under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.))that the Secretary determines complies with standards established by the Secretary that ensure that the standards under the State program are comparable to or more restrictive than those in effect on June 1, 1995; or
        (iii) enrolled as a participant in a Head Start program authorized under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), on the basis of a determination that the child is a member of a family that meets the low-income criteria prescribed under section 645(a)(1)(A) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9840(a)(1)(A)).
      (B) Proof of receipt of food stamps or assistance under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) that the Secretary determines complies with standards established by the Secretary that ensure that the standards under the State program are comparable to or more restrictive than those in effect on June 1, 1995, or of enrollment or participation in a Head Start program on the basis described in subparagraph (A)(iii), shall be sufficient to satisfy any verification requirement imposed under paragraph (2)(C).
  (c) Operation on nonprofit basis; donation of agricultural commodities
     School lunch programs under this chapter shall be operated on a nonprofit basis. Commodities purchased under the authority of section 612c of title 7, may be donated by the Secretary to schools, in accordance with the needs as determined by local school authorities, for utilization in the school lunch program under this chapter as well as to other schools carrying out nonprofit school lunch programs and institutions authorized to receive such commodities. The requirements of this section relating to the service of meals without cost or at a reduced cost shall apply to the lunch program of any school utilizing commodities donated under any provision of law.
  (d) Social Security numbers and other documentation required as condition of eligibility
    (1) The Secretary shall require as a condition of eligibility for receipt of free or reduced price lunches that the member of the household who executes the application furnish the social security account number of the parent or guardian who is the primary wage earner responsible for the care of the child for whom the application is made, or that of another appropriate adult member of the child“s household, as determined by the Secretary. The Secretary shall require that social security account numbers of all adult members of the household be provided if verification of the data contained in the application is sought under subsection (b)(2)(C) of this section.
    (2) No member of a household may be provided a free or reduced price lunch under this chapter unless–
      (A) appropriate documentation relating to the income of such household (as prescribed by the Secretary) has been provided to the appropriate local school food authority so that such authority may calculate the total income of such household;
      (B) documentation showing that the household is participating in the food stamp program under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 [7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.] has been provided to the appropriate local school food authority; or
      (C) documentation has been provided to the appropriate local school food authority showing that the family is receiving assistance under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.] that the Secretary determines complies with standards established by the Secretary that ensure that the standards under the State program are comparable to or more restrictive than those in effect on June 1, 1995.
  (e) Limitation on meal contracting
     A school or school food authority participating in a program under this chapter may not contract with a food service company to provide a la carte food service unless the company agrees to offer free, reduced price, and full-price reimbursable meals to all eligible children.
  (f) Nutritional requirements
    (1) T4Nutritional requirementsK.–Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than the first day of the 1996–1997 school year, schools that are participating in the school lunch or school breakfast program shall serve lunches and breakfasts under the program that–
      (A) are consistent with the goals of the most recent Dietary Guidelines for Americans published under section 5341 of title 7; and
      (B) provide, on the average over each week, at least–
        (i) with respect to school lunches, \1/3\ of the daily recommended dietary allowance established by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences; and
        (ii) with respect to school breakfasts, \1/4\ of the daily recommended dietary allowance established by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences.
    (2) State educational agencies may grant waivers from the requirements of subparagraph (A) \2\N subject to criteria established by the appropriate State educational agency. The waivers shall not permit schools to implement the requirements later than July 1, 1998, or a later date determined by the Secretary.
    (3) To assist schools in meeting the requirements of this paragraph,\2\ the Secretary–
      (A) shall–
        (i) develop, and provide to schools, standardized recipes, menu cycles, and food product specification and preparation techniques; and
        (ii) provide to schools information regarding nutrient standard menu planning, assisted nutrient standard menu planning, and food-based menu systems; and
      (B) may provide to schools information regarding other approaches, as determined by the Secretary.
    (4) T4Use of any reasonable approach.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–A school food service authority may use any reasonable approach, within guidelines established by the Secretary in a timely manner, to meet the requirements of this paragraph,\2\ including–
        (i) using the school nutrition meal pattern in effect for the 1994–1995 school year; and
        (ii) using any of the approaches described in paragraph (3).
      (B) T4Nutrient analysisK.–The Secretary may not require a school to conduct or use a nutrient analysis to meet the requirements of this paragraph.\2\
  (g) Justification of production records; paperwork reduction
     Not later than 1 year after November 2, 1994, the Secretary shall provide a notification to Congress that justifies the need for production records required under section 210.10(b) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, and describes how the Secretary has reduced paperwork relating to the school lunch and school breakfast programs.
