  (a) Applicable period; use of funds for purchase of agricultural commodities and products for donation
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary, during the period beginning July 1, 1974, and ending September 30, 1998, shall–
    (1) use funds available to carry out the provisions of section 612c of title 7 which are not expended or needed to carry out such provisions, to purchase (without regard to the provisions of existing law governing the expenditure of public funds) agricultural commodities and their products of the types customarily purchased under such section (which may include domestic seafood commodities and their products), for donation to maintain the annually programmed level of assistance for programs carried on under this chapter, the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 [42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.], and title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.]; and
    (2) if stocks of the Commodity Credit Corporation are not available, use the funds of such Corporation to purchase agricultural commodities and their products of the types customarily available under section 1431 of title 7, for such donation.
  (b) Nutrition quality and content information
    (1) The Secretary shall maintain and continue to improve the overall nutritional quality of entitlement commodities provided to schools to assist the schools in improving the nutritional content of meals.
    (2) The Secretary shall–
      (A) require that nutritional content information labels be placed on packages or shipments of entitlement commodities provided to the schools; or
      (B) otherwise provide nutritional content information regarding the commodities provided to the schools.
  (c) Authorization of appropriations for purchase of products or for cash payments in lieu of donations
     The Secretary may use funds appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury to purchase agricultural commodities and their products of the types customarily purchased for donation under section 311(a)(4) of the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3030a(a)(4)] or for cash payments in lieu of such donations under section 311(b)(1) of such Act [42 U.S.C. 3030a(b)(1)]. There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection.
  (d) Assistance procedures; cost and benefits, review; technical assistance; report to Congress; food quality standards contracting procedures
     In providing assistance under this chapter and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 [42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.] for school lunch and breakfast programs, the Secretary shall establish procedures which will–
    (1) ensure that the views of local school districts and private nonprofit schools with respect to the type of commodity assistance needed in schools are fully and accurately reflected in reports to the Secretary by the State with respect to State commodity preferences and that such views are considered by the Secretary in the purchase and distribution of commodities and by the States in the allocation of such commodities among schools within the States;
    (2) solicit the views of States with respect to the acceptability of commodities;
    (3) ensure that the timing of commodity deliveries to States is consistent with State school year calendars and that such deliveries occur with sufficient advance notice;
    (4) provide for systematic review of the costs and benefits of providing commodities of the kind and quantity that are suitable to the needs of local school districts and private nonprofit schools; and
    (5) make available technical assistance on the use of commodities available under this chapter and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 [42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.].
       Within eighteen months after November 10, 1977, the Secretary shall report to Congress on the impact of procedures established under this subsection, including the nutritional, economic, and administrative benefits of such procedures. In purchasing commodities for programs carried out under this chapter and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, the Secretary shall establish procedures to ensure that contracts for the purchase of such commodities shall not be entered into unless the previous history and current patterns of the contracting party with respect to compliance with applicable meat inspection laws and with other appropriate standards relating to the wholesomeness of food for human consumption are taken into account.
  (e) Consultation with school representatives
     Each State agency that receives food assistance payments under this section for any school year shall consult with representatives of schools in the State that participate in the school lunch program with respect to the needs of such schools relating to the manner of selection and distribution of commodity assistance for such program.
  (f) Commodity only schools
     Commodity only schools shall be eligible to receive donated commodities equal in value to the sum of the national average value of donated foods established under section 1755(e) of this title and the national average payment established under section 1753 of this title. Such schools shall be eligible to receive up to 5 cents per meal of such value in cash for processing and handling expenses related to the use of such commodities. Lunches served in such schools shall consist of a combination of foods which meet the minimum nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary under section 1758(a) of this title, and shall represent the four basic food groups, including a serving of fluid milk.
  (g) Extension of alternative means of assistance
    (1) As used in this subsection, the term ””eligible school district““ has the same meaning given such term in section 1581(a) of the Food Security Act of 1985.
    (2) In accordance with the terms and conditions of section 1581 of such Act, the Secretary shall permit an eligible school district to continue to receive assistance in the form of cash or commodity letters of credit assistance, in lieu of commodities, to carry out the school lunch program operated in the district.
