  (a) Congressional findings
     Congress finds that effective dissemination of scientifically valid information to children participating or eligible to participate in the school lunch and related child nutrition programs should be encouraged.
  (b) Statement of purpose
     It is the purpose of this section to establish a system of grants to State educational agencies for the development of comprehensive nutrition education and training programs. Such nutrition education programs shall fully use as a learning laboratory the school lunch and child nutrition programs.
  (c) ””Nutrition education and training program““ defined
     For purposes of this section, the term ””nutrition education and training program““ means a multidisciplinary program by which scientifically valid information about foods and nutrients is imparted in a manner that individuals receiving such information will understand the principles of nutrition and seek to maximize their well-being through food consumption practices. Nutrition education programs shall include, but not be limited to, (A) instructing students with regard to the nutritional value of foods and the relationship between food and human health; (B) training child nutrition program personnel in the principles and practices of food service management; (C) instructing teachers in sound principles of nutrition education; (D) developing and using classroom materials and curricula; and (E) providing information to parents and caregivers regarding the nutritional value of food and the relationship between food and health.
  (d) Nutrition education and training; grants; coordination with other nutrition activities; coordination with Department of Health and Human Services: transfer of funds; State contracts: nutrition training grants and pilot projects
    (1) The Secretary is authorized to formulate and carry out a nutrition education and training program, through a system of grants to State educational agencies, to provide for (A) the nutritional training of educational and food service personnel, (B) training school food service personnel in the principles and practices of food service management, in cooperation with materials developed at any food service management institute established as authorized by section 21(a)(2) of the National School Lunch Act [42 U.S.C. 1769b–1(a)(2)], and (C) the conduct of nutrition education activities in schools, child care institutions, and institutions offering summer food service programs under section 13 of the National School Lunch Act [42 U.S.C. 1761], and the provision of nutrition education to parents and caregivers.
    (2) The program is to be coordinated at the State level with other nutrition activities conducted by education, health, and State Cooperative Extension Service agencies. In formulating the program, the Secretary and the State may solicit the advice and recommendations of State educational agencies, the Department of Health and Human Services, and other interested groups and individuals concerned with improvement of child nutrition.
    (3) If a State educational agency is conducting or applying to conduct a health education program which includes a school-related nutrition education component as defined by the Secretary, and that health education program is eligible for funds under programs administered by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Secretary may make funds authorized in this section available to the Department of Health and Human Services to fund the nutrition education component of the State program without requiring an additional grant application.
    (4) The Secretary, in carrying out the provisions of this subsection, shall make grants to State educational agencies who, in turn, may contract with land-grant colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 [7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.], or the Act of August 30, 1890 [7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.], including the Tuskegee Institute, other institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations and agencies, for the training of educational, school food service, child care, and summer food service personnel with respect to providing nutrition education programs in schools and the training of school food service personnel in school food service management, in coordination with the activities authorized under section 21 of the National School Lunch Act [42 U.S.C. 1769b–1]. Such grants may be used to develop and conduct training programs for early childhood, elementary, and secondary educational personnel and food service personnel with respect to the relationship between food, nutrition, and health; educational methods and techniques, and issues relating to nutrition education; and principles and skills of food service management for cafeteria personnel.
    (5) The State, in carrying out the provisions of this subsection, may contract with State and local educational agencies, land-grant colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 [7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.], or the act of August 30, 1890 [7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.], including the Tuskegee Institute, other institutions of higher education, and other public or private nonprofit educational or research agencies, institutions, or organizations to pay the cost of pilot demonstration projects in elementary and secondary schools, and in child care institutions and summer food service institutions, with respect to nutrition education. Such projects may include, but are not limited to, projects for the development, demonstration, testing, and evaluation of curricula for use in early childhood, elementary, and secondary education programs.
  (e) Agreements with State agencies; regulations
     The Secretary is authorized to enter into agreements with State educational agencies incorporating the provisions of this section, and issue such regulations as are necessary to implement this section.
  (f) Use of funds; planning and assessment grants; administrative expenses
    (1) The funds made available under this section may, under guidelines established by the Secretary, be used by State educational agencies for–
      (A) employing a nutrition education specialist to coordinate the program, including travel and related personnel costs;
      (B) undertaking an assessment of the nutrition education needs of the State;
      (C) developing a State plan of operation and management for nutrition education;
      (D) applying for and carrying out planning and assessment grants;
      (E) pilot projects and related purposes;
      (F) the planning, development, and conduct of nutrition education programs and workshops for food service and educational personnel;
      (G) coordinating and promoting nutrition education and training activities in local school districts (incorporating, to the maximum extent practicable, as a learning laboratory, the child nutrition programs);
      (H) contracting with public and private nonprofit educational institutions for the conduct of nutrition education instruction and programs relating to the purposes of this section;
      (I) related nutrition education purposes, including the preparation, testing, distribution, and evaluation of visual aids and other informational and educational materials; and
      (J) other appropriate related activities, as determined by the State.
    (2) A State agency may use an amount equal to not more than 15 percent of the funds made available through a grant under this section for expenditures for administrative purposes in connection with the program authorized under this section if the State makes available at least an equal amount for administrative or program purposes in connection with the program.
  (g) Accounts, records, and reports; inspection, audit, and preservation
    (1) State educational agencies participating in programs under this section shall keep such accounts and records as may be necessary to enable the Secretary to determine whether there has been compliance with this section and the regulations issued hereunder. Such accounts and records shall be available at any reasonable time for inspection and audit by representatives of the Secretary and shall be preserved for such period of time, not in excess of five years, as the Secretary determines to be necessary.
    (2) State educational agencies shall provide reports on expenditures of Federal funds, program participation, program costs, and related matters, in such form and at such times as the Secretary may prescribe.
  (h) State coordinators for nutrition; duties; budget and need assessment
    (1) In order to be eligible for assistance under this section, a State shall appoint a nutrition education specialist to serve as a State coordinator for school nutrition education. It shall be the responsibility of the State coordinator to make an assessment of the nutrition education needs in the State, prepare a State plan, and coordinate programs under this chapter with all other nutrition education programs provided by the State with Federal or State funds.
    (2) Upon receipt of funds authorized by this section, the State coordinator shall prepare an itemized budget and assess the nutrition education and training needs of the State.
      (i) Authorization of appropriations; enrollment data
        (1) For the fiscal years beginning October 1, 1977, and October 1, 1978, grants to the States for the conduct of nutrition education and information programs shall be based on a rate of 50 cents for each child enrolled in schools or in institutions within the State, except that no State shall receive an amount less than $75,000 per year.
        (2)          (A) Out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and in addition to any amounts otherwise made available for fiscal year 1995, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the Secretary $1,000 for fiscal year 1995 and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1996 for making grants under this section to each State for the conduct of nutrition education and training programs. The Secretary shall be entitled to receive the funds and shall accept the funds.
          (B)            (i)              (I) Subject to clause (ii), grants to each State from the amounts appropriated under subparagraph (A) shall be based on a rate of 50 cents for each child enrolled in schools or institutions within such State.
              (II) If the amount appropriated for any fiscal year is insufficient to pay the amount to which each State is entitled under subclause (I), the amount of each grant shall be ratably reduced. If additional funds become available for making such payments, such amounts shall be increased on the same basis as they were reduced.
            (ii) No State shall receive an amount that is less than–
              (I) $50,000, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for purposes of this section is less than $10,000,000;
              (II) $62,500, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for purposes of this section is $10,000,000 or more but is less than $15,000,000;
              (III) $68,750, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for purposes of this section is $15,000,000 or more but is less than $20,000,000; and
              (IV) $75,000 in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for purposes of this section is $20,000,000 or more.
        (3) T4Fiscal years 1997 through 2002.–
          (A) T4In generalK.–There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2002.
          (B) T4Grants.–
            (i) T4In generalK.–Grants to each State from the amounts made available under subparagraph (A) shall be based on a rate of 50 cents for each child enrolled in schools or institutions within the State, except that no State shall receive an amount less than $75,000 per fiscal year.
            (ii) T4Insufficient fundsK.–If the amount made available for any fiscal year is insufficient to pay the amount to which each State is entitled under clause (i), the amount of each grant shall be ratably reduced.
        (4) Funds made available to any State under this section shall remain available to the State for obligation in the fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year in which the funds were received by the State.
        (5) Enrollment data used for purposes of this subsection shall be the latest available as certified by the Department of Education.
