  (a) Appointment; compensation; term of office
     The Director of the Foundation (referred to in this chapter as the ””Director““) shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Before any person is appointed as Director, the President shall afford the Board an opportunity to make recommendations to him with respect to such appointment. The Director shall receive basic pay at the rate provided for level II of the Executive Schedule under section 5313 of title 5, and shall serve for a term of six years unless sooner removed by the President.
  (b) Exercise of authority of Foundation; actions as final and binding upon the Foundation
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter (1) the Director shall exercise all of the authority granted to the Foundation by this chapter (including any powers and functions which may be delegated to him by the Board), and (2) all actions taken by the Director pursuant to the provisions of this chapter (or pursuant to the terms of a delegation from the Board) shall be final and binding upon the Foundation.
  (c) Delegation and redelegation of functions
     The Director may from time to time make such provisions as he deems appropriate authorizing the performance by any other officer, agency, or employee of the Foundation of any of his functions under this chapter, including functions delegated to him by the Board; except that the Director may not redelegate policymaking functions delegated to him by the Board.
  (d) Formulation of programs
     The formulation of programs in conformance with the policies of the Foundation shall be carried out by the Director in consultation with the Board.
  (e) Authority to grant, contract, etc.; delegation of authority or imposition of conditions; reporting requirement; termination of provisions
    (1) The Director may make grants, contracts, and other arrangements pursuant to section 1870(c) of this title only with the prior approval of the Board or under authority delegated by the Board, and subject to such conditions as the Board may specify.
    (2) Any delegation of authority or imposition of conditions under the preceding sentence shall be effective only for such period of time, not exceeding two years, as the Board may specify, and shall be promptly published in the Federal Register and reported to the Committees on Labor and Human Resources and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives. On October 1 of each odd-numbered year the Board shall submit to the Congress a concise report which explains and justifies any actions taken by the Board under this subsection to delegate its authority or impose conditions within the preceding two years. The provisions of this subsection shall cease to be effective at the end of fiscal year 1989.
  (f) Status; power to vote and hold office
     The Director, in his capacity as ex officio member of the Board, shall, except with respect to compensation and tenure, be coordinate with the other members of the Board. He shall be a voting member of the Board and shall be eligible for election by the Board as Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board.
