  (a) Establishment; purposes
     There is established within the Foundation a Committee on Equal Opportunities in Science and Engineering (hereinafter referred to as the ””Committee““). The Committee shall provide advice to the Foundation concerning (1) the implementation of the provisions of sections 1885 to 1885d of this title and (2) other policies and activities of the Foundation to encourage full participation of women, minorities, and other groups currently underrepresented in scientific, engineering, and professional fields.
  (b) Membership; Chairperson; term of members
     Each member of the Committee shall be appointed by the Director with the concurrence of the National Science Board. The Chairperson of the National Science Board Committee on Minorities and Women shall be an ex officio member of the Committee. Members of the Committee shall be appointed to serve for a three-year term, and may be reappointed to serve one additional term of three years.
  (c) Subcommittee on Women in Science and Engineering; purposes; membership
     There shall be a subcommittee of the Committee which shall be known as the Subcommittee on Women in Science and Engineering. The Subcommittee on Women in Science and Engineering shall have responsibility for all Committee matters relating to (1) the participation in and opportunities for the education, training, and research of women in science and engineering and (2) the impact of science and engineering on women. The Subcommittee shall be composed of all the women members of the Committee and such other members of the Committee as the Committee may designate.
  (d) Subcommittee on Minorities in Science and Engineering; purposes; membership
     There shall be a subcommittee of the Committee which shall be known as the Subcommittee on Minorities in Science and Engineering. The Subcommittee on Minorities in Science and Engineering shall have responsibility for all Committee matters relating to (1) the participation in and opportunities for education, training, and research for minorities in science and engineering and (2) the impact of science and engineering on minorities. The Subcommittee shall be composed of all minority members of the Committee and such other members of the Committee as the Committee may designate.
  (e) Additional standing or ad hoc subcommittees
     The Committee may organize such additional standing or ad hoc subcommittees as the Committee finds appropriate.
  (f) Biennial report
     Every two years, the Committee shall prepare and transmit to the Director a report on its activities during the previous two years and proposed activities for the next two years. The Director shall transmit to Congress the report, unaltered, together with such comments as the Director deems appropriate.
