  (a) Annual assessment
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (in this section referred to as the ””Commission““) shall annually assess and collect such fees and charges as are described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
    (2) First assessment
       The first assessment of fees under subsection (b) of this section and annual charges under subsection (c) of this section shall be made not later than September 30, 1991.
    (3) Last assessment of annual charges
       The last assessment of annual charges under subsection (c) of this section shall be made not later than September 30, 1998.
  (b) Fees for service or thing of value
     Pursuant to section 9701 of title 31, any person who receives a service or thing of value from the Commission shall pay fees to cover the Commission“s costs in providing any such service or thing of value.
  (c) Annual charges
    (1) Persons subject to charge
       Except as provided in paragraph (4), any licensee of the Commission may be required to pay, in addition to the fees set forth in subsection (b) of this section, an annual charge.
    (2) Aggregate amount of charges
       The aggregate amount of the annual charge collected from all licensees shall equal an amount that approximates 100 percent of the budget authority of the Commission in the fiscal year in which such charge is collected, less any amount appropriated to the Commission from the Nuclear Waste Fund and the amount of fees collected under subsection (b) of this section in such fiscal year.
    (3) Amount per licensee
       The Commission shall establish, by rule, a schedule of charges fairly and equitably allocating the aggregate amount of charges described in paragraph (2) among licensees. To the maximum extent practicable, the charges shall have a reasonable relationship to the cost of providing regulatory services and may be based on the allocation of the Commission“s resources among licensees or classes of licensees.
    (4) Exemption
      (A) In general
         Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the holder of any license for a federally owned research reactor used primarily for educational training and academic research purposes.
      (B) Research reactor
         For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term ””research reactor““ means a nuclear reactor that–
        (i) is licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 2134(c) of this title for operation at a thermal power level of 10 megawatts or less; and
        (ii) if so licensed for operation at a thermal power level of more than 1 megawatt, does not contain–
          (I) a circulating loop through the core in which the licensee conducts fuel experiments;
          (II) a liquid fuel loading; or
          (III) an experimental facility in the core in excess of 16 square inches in cross-section.
  (d) ””Nuclear Waste Fund““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””Nuclear Waste Fund““ means the fund established pursuant to section 10222(c) of this title.
