  (a) Establishment
     There is hereby established an independent establishment in the executive branch, to be known as the ””Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board““ (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””Board““).
  (b) Membership
    (1) The Board shall be composed of five members appointed from civilian life by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among United States citizens who are respected experts in the field of nuclear safety with a demonstrated competence and knowledge relevant to the independent investigative and oversight functions of the Board. Not more than three members of the Board shall be of the same political party.
    (2) Any vacancy in the membership of the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (3) No member of the Board may be an employee of, or have any significant financial relationship with, the Department of Energy or any contractor of the Department of Energy.
    (4) Not later than 180 days after September 29, 1988, the President shall submit to the Senate nominations for appointment to the Board. In the event that the President is unable to submit the nominations within such 180-day period, the President shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services and on Appropriations of the Senate and to the Speaker of the House of Representatives a report describing the reasons for such inability and a plan for submitting the nominations within the next 90 days. If the President is unable to submit the nominations within that 90-day period, the President shall again submit to such committees and the Speaker such a report and plan. The President shall continue to submit to such committees and the Speaker such a report and plan every 90 days until the nominations are submitted.
  (c) Chairman and Vice Chairman
    (1) The President shall designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board from among members of the Board.
    (2) The Chairman shall be the chief executive officer of the Board and, subject to such policies as the Board may establish, shall exercise the functions of the Board with respect to–
      (A) the appointment and supervision of employees of the Board;
      (B) the organization of any administrative units established by the Board; and
      (C) the use and expenditure of funds.
    (3) The Chairman may delegate any of the functions under this paragraph to any other member or to any appropriate officer of the Board.
    (4) The Vice Chairman shall act as Chairman in the event of the absence or incapacity of the Chairman or in case of a vacancy in the office of Chairman.
  (d) Terms
    (1) Except as provided under paragraph (2), the members of the Board shall serve for terms of five years. Members of the Board may be reappointed.
    (2) Of the members first appointed–
      (A) one shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (B) one shall be appointed for a term of two years;
      (C) one shall be appointed for a term of three years;
      (D) one shall be appointed for a term of four years; and
      (E) one shall be appointed for a term of five years,
         as designated by the President at the time of appointment.
    (3) Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term of office for which such member“s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A member may serve after the expiration of that member“s term until a successor has taken office.
  (e) Quorum
     Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.
