   For purposes of this subchapter:
  (1) The term ””AVLIS““ means atomic vapor laser isotope separation technology.
  (2) The term ””Corporation““ means the United States Enrichment Corporation and, unless the context otherwise requires, includes the private corporation and any successor thereto following privatization.
  (3) The term ””gaseous diffusion plants““ means the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant at Paducah, Kentucky and the Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant at Piketon, Ohio.
  (4) The term ””highly enriched uranium““ means uranium enriched to 20 percent or more of the uranium-235 isotope.
  (5) The term ””low-enriched uranium““ means uranium enriched to less than 20 percent of the uranium-235 isotope, including that which is derived from highly enriched uranium.
  (6) The term ””low-level radioactive waste““ has the meaning given such term in section 2021b(9) of this title.
  (7) The term ””private corporation““ means the corporation established under section 2297h–3 of this title.
  (8) The term ””privatization““ means the transfer of ownership of the Corporation to private investors.
  (9) The term ””privatization date““ means the date on which 100 percent of the ownership of the Corporation has been transferred to private investors.
  (10) The term ””public offering““ means an underwritten offering to the public of the common stock of the private corporation pursuant to section 2297h–2 of this title.
  (11) The ””Russian HEU Agreement““ means the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Russian Federation Concerning the Disposition of Highly Enriched Uranium Extracted from Nuclear Weapons, dated February 18, 1993.
  (12) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Energy.
  (13) The ””Suspension Agreement““ means the Agreement to Suspend the Antidumping Investigation on Uranium from the Russian Federation, as amended.
  (14) The term ””uranium enrichment““ means the separation of uranium of a given isotopic content into 2 components, 1 having a higher percentage of a fissile isotope and 1 having a lower percentage.
