  (a) Authority of Administrator; amount
     The Administrator may make grants and enter into contracts or other transactions under this subsection to assist any space grant and fellowship program or project if the Administrator finds that such program or project will carry out the purposes set forth in section 2486a of this title. The total amount paid pursuant to any such grant or contract may equal 66 percent, or any lesser percent, of the total cost of the space grant and fellowship program or project involved, except that this limitation shall not apply in the case of grants or contracts paid for with funds accepted by the Administrator pursuant to section 2486c(c)(2) of this title.
  (b) Special grants; amount; prerequisites
     The Administrator may make special grants under this subsection to carry out the purposes set forth in section 2486a of this title. The amount of any such grant may equal 100 percent, or any lesser percent, of the total cost of the project involved. No grant may be made under this subsection, unless the Administrator finds that–
    (1) no reasonable means is available through which the applicant can meet the matching requirement for a grant under subsection (a) of this section;
    (2) the probable benefit of such project outweighs the public interest in such matching requirement; and
    (3) the same or equivalent benefit cannot be obtained through the award of a contract or grant under subsection (a) of this section or section 2486e of this title.
  (c) Application
     Any person may apply to the Administrator for a grant or contract under this section. Application shall be made in such form and manner, and with such content and other submissions, as the Administrator shall by regulation prescribe.
  (d) Terms and conditions; limitations; leasing; recordkeeping; audits
    (1) Any grant made, or contract entered into, under this section shall be subject to the limitations and provisions set forth in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection and to such other terms, conditions and requirements as the Administrator considers necessary or appropriate.
    (2) No payment under any grant or contract under this section may be applied to–
      (A) the purchase of any land;
      (B) the purchase, construction, preservation, or repair of any building; or
      (C) the purchase or construction of any launch facility or launch vehicle.
    (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of this subsection, the items in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of such paragraph may be leased upon written approval of the Administrator.
    (4) Any person who receives or utilizes any proceeds of any grant or contract under this section shall keep such records as the Administrator shall by regulation prescribe as being necessary and appropriate to facilitate effective audit and evaluation, including records which fully disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of such proceeds, the total cost of the program or project in connection with which such proceeds were used, and the amount, if any, of such cost which was provided through other sources. Such records shall be maintained for three years after the completion of such a program or project. The Administrator and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and evaluation, to any books, documents, papers and records of receipts which, in the opinion of the Administrator or the Comptroller General, may be related or pertinent to such grants and contracts.
