  (a) Application requirement
     No grant may be made under this part or contract entered into under section 274 or 274a of this title unless an application therefor has been submitted to, and approved by, the Secretary. Such an application shall be in such form and shall be submitted in such manner as the Secretary shall by regulation prescribe.
  (b) Special considerations and priority; planning and establishment grants
    (1) A grant for planning under section 273(a)(1) of this title may be made for one year with respect to any organ procurement organization and may not exceed $100,000.
    (2) Grants under section 273(a)(2) of this title may be made for two years. No such grant may exceed $500,000 for any year and no organ procurement organization may receive more than $800,000 for initial operation or expansion.
    (3) Grants or contracts under section 273(a)(3) of this title may be made for not more than 3 years.
  (c) Determination of grant amount; terms of payment; recordkeeping; access for purposes of audits and examination of records
    (1) The Secretary shall determine the amount of a grant or contract made under section 273 or 274a of this title. Payments under such grants and contracts may be made in advance on the basis of estimates or by the way of reimbursement, with necessary adjustments on account of underpayments or overpayments, and in such installments and on such terms and conditions as the Secretary finds necessary to carry out the purposes of such grants and contracts.
    (2)      (A) Each recipient of a grant or contract under section 273 or 274a of this title shall keep such records as the Secretary shall prescribe, including records which fully disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of such grant or contract, the total cost of the undertaking in connection with which such grant or contract was made, and the amount of that portion of the cost of the undertaking supplied by other sources, and such other records as will facilitate an effective audit.
      (B) The Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient of a grant or contract under section 273 or 274a of this title that are pertinent to such grant or contract.
  (d) ””Transplant center““ and ””organ““ defined
     For purposes of this part:
    (1) The term ””transplant center““ means a health care facility in which transplants of organs are performed.
    (2) The term ””organ““ means the human kidney, liver, heart, lung, pancreas, and any other human organ (other than corneas and eyes) specified by the Secretary by regulation and for purposes of section 274a of this title, such term includes bone marrow.
