  (a) Agency of Public Health Service
     The National Institutes of Health is an agency of the Service.
  (b) Agencies within
    (1) The following national research institutes are agencies of the National Institutes of Health:
      (A) The National Cancer Institute.
      (B) The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
      (C) The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
      (D) The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.
      (E) The National Institute on Aging.
      (F) The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
      (G) The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.
      (H) The National Institute of Dental Research.
      (I) The National Eye Institute.
      (J) The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
      (K) The National Institute of General Medical Sciences.
      (L) The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
      (M) The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders.
      (N) The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
      (O) The National Institute on Drug Abuse.
      (P) The National Institute of Mental Health.
      (Q) The National Institute of Nursing Research.
    (2) The following entities are agencies of the National Institutes of Health:
      (A) The National Library of Medicine.
      (B) The National Center for Research Resources.
      (C) The John E. Fogarty International Center for Advanced Study in the Health Sciences.
      (D) The National Center for Human Genome Research.
      (E) The Office of Dietary Supplements.
  (c) Establishment of additional national research institutes; reorganization or abolition of institutes
    (1) The Secretary may establish in the National Institutes of Health one or more additional national research institutes to conduct and support research, training, health information, and other programs with respect to any particular disease or groups of diseases or any other aspect of human health if–
      (A) the Secretary determines that an additional institute is necessary to carry out such activities; and
      (B) the additional institute is not established before the expiration of 180 days after the Secretary has provided the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate written notice of the determination made under subparagraph (A) with respect to the institute.
    (2) The Secretary may reorganize the functions of any national research institute and may abolish any national research institute if the Secretary determines that the institute is no longer required. A reorganization or abolition may not take effect under this paragraph before the expiration of 180 days after the Secretary has provided the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate written notice of the reorganization or abolition.
  (d) ””National research institute““ defined
     For purposes of this subchapter, the term ””national research institute““ means a national research institute listed in subsection (b) of this section or established under subsection (c) of this section. A reference to the National Institutes of Health includes its agencies.
