  (a) Training generally
     The Secretary may make grants to, or enter into contracts with, any public or nonprofit private hospital, school of medicine or osteopathic medicine, or to or with a public or private nonprofit entity (which the Secretary has determined is capable of carrying out such grant or contract)–
    (1) to plan, develop, and operate, or participate in, an approved professional training program (including an approved residency or internship program) in the field of family medicine for medical (M.D. and D.O.) students, interns (including interns in internships in osteopathic medicine), residents, or practicing physicians;
    (2) to provide financial assistance (in the form of traineeships and fellowships) to medical (M.D. and D.O.) students, interns (including interns in internships in osteopathic medicine), residents, practicing physicians, or other medical personnel, who are in need thereof, who are participants in any such program, and who plan to specialize or work in the practice of family medicine;
    (3) to plan, develop, and operate a program for the training of physicians who plan to teach in family medicine training programs; and
    (4) to provide financial assistance (in the form of traineeships and fellowships) to physicians who are participants in any such program and who plan to teach in a family medicine training program.
  (b) Academic administrative units
    (1) In general
       The Secretary may make grants to or enter into contracts with schools of medicine or osteopathic medicine to meet the costs of projects to establish, maintain, or improve academic administrative units (which may be departments, divisions, or other units) to provide clinical instruction in family medicine.
    (2) Preference in making awards
       In making awards of grants and contracts under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to any qualified applicant for such an award that agrees to expend the award for the purpose of–
      (A) establishing an academic administrative unit for programs in family medicine; or
      (B) substantially expanding the programs of such a unit.
  (c) Duration of award
     The period during which payments are made to an entity from an award of a grant or contract under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed 5 years. The provision of such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the Secretary of the payments and subject to the availability of appropriations for the fiscal year involved to make the payments.
  (d) Funding
    (1) Authorization of appropriations
       For the purpose of carrying out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $54,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1995.
    (2) Allocation
       Of the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make available not less than 20 percent for awards of grants and contracts under subsection (b) of this section.
