  (a) In general
     The Secretary may make grants to public or nonprofit private educational entities (including graduate schools of social work but excluding accredited schools of public health) that offer a program described in subsection (b) of this section–
    (1) to provide traineeships for students enrolled in such a program; and
    (2) to assist programs of health administration in the development or improvement of programs to prepare students for employment with public or nonprofit private entities.
  (b) Relevant programs
     The program referred to in subsection (a) of this section is a program in health administration, hospital administration, or health policy analysis and planning, which program is accredited by a body or bodies approved for such purpose by the Secretary of Education and which meets such other quality standards as the Secretary of Health and Human Services by regulation may prescribe.
  (c) Preference in making grants
     In making grants under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall give preference to qualified applicants that meet the following conditions:
    (1) Not less than 25 percent of the graduates of the applicant are engaged in full-time practice settings in medically underserved communities.
    (2) The applicant recruits and admits students from medically underserved communities.
    (3) For the purpose of training students, the applicant has established relationships with public and nonprofit providers of health care in the community involved.
    (4) In training students, the applicant emphasizes employment with public or nonprofit private entities.
  (d) Certain provisions regarding traineeships
    (1) Use of grant
       Traineeships awarded under grants made under subsection (a) of this section shall provide for tuition and fees and such stipends and allowances (including travel and subsistence expenses and dependency allowances) for the trainees as the Secretary may deem necessary.
    (2) Preference for certain students
       Each entity applying for a grant under subsection (a) of this section for traineeships shall assure to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the entity will give priority to awarding the traineeships to students who demonstrate a commitment to employment with public or nonprofit private entities in the fields with respect to which the traineeships are awarded.
  (e) Application for grant
     No grant may be made under subsection (a) of this section unless an application therefor has been submitted to, and approved by, the Secretary. Such application shall be in such form, be submitted in such manner, and contain such information, as the Secretary may prescribe. Traineeships under such a grant shall be awarded in accordance with such requirements as the Secretary shall prescribe. The amount of any such grant shall be determined by the Secretary.
  (f) Funding
    (1) Authorization of appropriations
       For payments under grants under subsection (a) of this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $2,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1995.
    (2) Limitation
       In obligating amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary may not obligate more than 30 percent for grants under subsection (a)(2) of this section.
