  (a) Description and measurement of project impact, effectiveness, and structure and mechanisms for delivery of services; frequency of evaluations
    (1) The Commissioner shall provide, directly or through grants or contracts, for the evaluation of projects assisted under this subchapter including evaluations that describe and measure the impact of such projects, their effectiveness in achieving stated goals, their impact on related programs, and their structure and mechanisms for delivery of services, including, where appropriate, comparisons with appropriate control groups composed of persons who have not participated in such projects. Evaluations shall be conducted by persons not directly involved in the administration of the program or project evaluated.
    (2) The projects assisted under this subchapter shall be evaluated in accordance with this section not less frequently than at 3-year intervals.
  (b) General standards for evaluation
     Prior to obligating funds for the programs and projects covered by this subchapter with respect to fiscal year 1976, the Commissioner shall develop and publish general standards for evaluation of program and project effectiveness in achieving the objectives of this subchapter. The extent to which such standards have been met shall be considered in deciding whether to renew or supplement financial assistance authorized under this subchapter.
  (c) Independent evaluations
     In carrying out evaluations under this subchapter, the Commissioner may require agencies which receive assistance under this subchapter to provide for independent evaluations.
  (d) Specificity of views
     In carrying out evaluations under this subchapter, the Commissioner shall, whenever feasible, arrange to obtain the specific views of persons participating in and served by programs and projects assisted under this subchapter about such programs and projects.
  (e) Publication of results; submission to Congress
     The Commissioner shall publish the results of evaluative research and summaries of evaluations of program and project impact and effectiveness not later than ninety days after the completion thereof. The Commissioner shall submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress copies of all such research studies and evaluation summaries.
  (f) Evaluation results as United States property
     The Commissioner shall take the necessary action to assure that all studies, evaluations, proposals, and data produced or developed with assistance under this subchapter shall become the property of the United States.
