  (a) In general
     In carrying out section 299(b) of this title, the Administrator shall conduct and support research, demonstration projects, evaluations, training, guideline development, and the dissemination of information, on health care services and on systems for the delivery of such services, including activities with respect to–
    (1) the effectiveness, efficiency, and quality of health care services;
    (2) subject to subsection (d) \1\N of this section, the outcomes of health care services and procedures;
    (3) clinical practice, including primary care and practice-oriented research;
    (4) health care technologies, facilities, and equipment;
    (5) health care costs, productivity, and market forces;
    (6) health promotion and disease prevention;
    (7) health statistics and epidemiology; and
    (8) medical liability.
  (b) Requirements with respect to rural areas and underserved populations
     In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator shall undertake and support research, demonstration projects, and evaluations with respect to–
    (1) the delivery of health care services in rural areas (including frontier areas); and
    (2) the health of low-income groups, minority groups, and the elderly.
  (c) Health services training grants
     The Administrator may provide training grants in the field of health services research related to activities authorized under subsection (a) of this section, to include pre- and post-doctoral fellowships and training programs, young investigator awards, and other programs and activities as appropriate.
  (d) Multidisciplinary centers
     The Administrator may provide financial assistance to public or nonprofit private entities for meeting the costs of planning and establishing new centers, and operating existing and new centers, for multidisciplinary health services research, demonstration projects, evaluations, training, policy analysis, and demonstrations respecting the matters referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
  (e) Relation to certain authorities regarding social security
     Activities authorized in this section may include, and shall be appropriately coordinated with, experiments, demonstration projects, and other related activities authorized by the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] and the Social Security Amendments of 1967. Activities under subsection (a)(2) of this section that affect the programs under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq., 1396 et seq.] shall be carried out consistent with section 1142 of such Act [42 U.S.C. 1320b–12].
