  (a) Establishment
     There is established an advisory council to be known as the National Advisory Council for Health Care Policy, Research, and Evaluation.
  (b) Duties
    (1) In general
       The Council shall advise the Secretary and the Administrator with respect to activities to carry out the purpose of the Agency under section 299(b) of this title.
    (2) Certain recommendations
       Activities of the Council under paragraph (1) shall include making recommendations to the Administrator regarding priorities for a national agenda and strategy for–
      (A) the conduct of research, demonstration projects, and evaluations with respect to health care, including clinical practice and primary care;
      (B) the development and application of appropriate health care technology assessments;
      (C) the development and periodic review and updating of guidelines for clinical practice, standards of quality, performance measures, and medical review criteria with respect to health care; and
      (D) the conduct of research on outcomes of health care services and procedures.
  (c) Membership
    (1) In general
       The Council shall, in accordance with this subsection, be composed of appointed members and ex officio members. All members of the Council shall be voting members, other than officials designated under paragraph (3)(B) as ex officio members of the Council.
    (2) Appointed members
       The Secretary shall appoint to the Council 17 appropriately qualified representatives of the public who are not officers or employees of the United States. The Secretary shall ensure that the appointed members of the Council, as a group, are representative of professions and entities concerned with, or affected by, activities under this subchapter and under section 1320b–12 of this title. Of such members–
      (A) 8 shall be individuals distinguished in the conduct of research, demonstration projects, and evaluations with respect to health care;
      (B) 3 shall be individuals distinguished in the practice of medicine;
      (C) 2 shall be individuals distinguished in the health professions;
      (D) 2 shall be individuals distinguished in the fields of business, law, ethics, economics, and public policy; and
      (E) 2 shall be individuals representing the interests of consumers of health care.
    (3) Ex officio members
       The Secretary shall designate as ex officio members of the Council–
      (A) the Director of the National Institutes of Health, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control, the Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs), the Chief Medical Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
      (B) such other Federal officials as the Secretary may consider appropriate.
  (d) Terms
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the Council appointed under subsection (c)(2) of this section shall serve for a term of 3 years.
    (2) Staggered rotation
       Of the members first appointed to the Council under subsection (c)(2) of this section, the Secretary shall appoint 6 members to serve for a term of 3 years, 6 members to serve for a term of 2 years, and 5 members to serve for a term of 1 year.
    (3) Service beyond term
       A member of the Council appointed under subsection (c)(2) of this section may continue to serve after the expiration of the term of the member until a successor is appointed.
  (e) Vacancies
     If a member of the Council appointed under subsection (c)(2) of this section does not serve the full term applicable under subsection (d) of this section, the individual appointed to fill the resulting vacancy shall be appointed for the remainder of the term of the predecessor of the individual.
  (f) Chair
     The Administrator shall, from among the members of the Council appointed under subsection (c)(2) of this section, designate an individual to serve as the chair of the Council.
  (g) Meetings
     The Council shall meet not less than once during each discrete 4-month period and shall otherwise meet at the call of the Administrator or the chair.
  (h) Compensation and reimbursement of expenses
    (1) Appointed members
       Members of the Council appointed under subsection (c)(2) of this section shall receive compensation for each day (including traveltime) engaged in carrying out the duties of the Council. Such compensation may not be in an amount in excess of the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS–18 of the General Schedule.
    (2) Ex officio members
       Officials designated under subsection (c)(3) of this section as ex officio members of the Council may not receive compensation for service on the Council in addition to the compensation otherwise received for duties carried out as officers of the United States.
      (i) Staff
         The Administrator shall provide to the Council such staff, information, and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the Council.
      (j) Duration
         Notwithstanding section 14(a) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Council shall continue in existence until otherwise provided by law.
