  (a) Establishment; composition; appointment of members; vacancies
    (1) There is established the President“s Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””Commission““) which shall be composed of eleven members appointed by the President. The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows:
      (A) Three of the members shall be appointed from individuals who are distinguished in biomedical or behavioral research.
      (B) Three of the members shall be appointed from individuals who are distinguished in the practice of medicine or otherwise distinguished in the provision of health care.
      (C) Five of the members shall be appointed from individuals who are distinguished in one or more of the fields of ethics, theology, law, the natural sciences (other than a biomedical or behavioral science), the social sciences, the humanities, health administration, government, and public affairs.
    (2) No individual who is a full–time officer or employee of the United States may be appointed as a member of the Commission. The Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of Central Intelligence, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall each designate an individual to provide liaison with the Commission.
    (3) No individual may be appointed to serve as a member of the Commission if the individual has served for two terms of four years each as such a member.
    (4) A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (b) Terms of members
    (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), members shall be appointed for terms of four years.
    (2) Of the members first appointed–
      (A) four shall be appointed for terms of three years, and
      (B) three shall be appointed for terms of two years,
         as designated by the President at the time of appointment.
    (3) Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A member may serve after the expiration of his term until his successor has taken office.
  (c) Chairman
     The Chairman of the Commission shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from members of the Commission.
  (d) Meetings
    (1) Seven members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for business, but a lesser number may conduct hearings.
    (2) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman or at the call of a majority of its members.
  (e) Compensation; travel expenses, etc.
    (1) Members of the Commission shall each be entitled to receive the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule for each day (including travel time) during which they are engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Commission.
    (2) While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.
