  (a) Consideration of needs of localities, employment situation and skills of eligible participants, and potential projects and number and percentage of eligible individuals in local population; coordination of programs by Secretary of Labor
    (1) In order to effectively carry out the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary shall, through the Assistant Secretary for Aging, consult with the State agency and the appropriate area agencies on aging established under section 3025(a)(2) of this title with regard to–
      (A) the localities in which community service projects of the type authorized by this subchapter are most needed;
      (B) consideration of the employment situations and the type of skills possessed by available local individuals who are eligible to participate; and
      (C) potential projects and the number and percentage of eligible individuals in the local population.
    (2) The Secretary of Labor and the Assistant Secretary for Aging shall coordinate the programs under this subchapter and the programs under subchapters III, IV, and X of this chapter to increase job opportunities available to older individuals.
  (b) Coordination of Older American Community Service Employment Program with other Federal programs; prohibition against use of appropriations under this chapter for other Federal programs; distribution of information relating to age discrimination
    (1) The Secretary shall coordinate the program assisted under this subchapter with programs authorized under the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.], the Community Services Block Grant Act [42 U.S.C. 9901 et seq.], and the Vocational Education Act of 1984 [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.]. The Secretary shall coordinate the administration of this subchapter with the administration of subchapters III, IV, and X of this chapter by the Assistant Secretary for Aging, to increase the likelihood that eligible individuals for whom employment opportunities under this subchapter are available and who need services under such subchapters receive such services. Appropriations under this chapter may not be used to carry out any program under the Job Training Partnership Act, the Community Services Block Grant Act, or the Vocational Education Act of 1984. The preceding sentence shall not be construed to prohibit carrying out projects under this subchapter jointly with programs, projects, or activities under any Act specified in such sentence.
    (2) The Secretary shall distribute to grantees under this subchapter, for distribution to program enrollees, and at no cost to grantees or enrollees, informational materials developed and supplied by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and other appropriate Federal agencies which the Secretary determines are designed to help enrollees identify age discrimination and understand their rights under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 [29 U.S.C. 621 et seq.].
  (c) Use of services, equipment, personnel, and facilities of Federal and other agencies; cooperation with other public and private agencies in such use
     In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary is authorized to use, with their consent, the services, equipment, personnel, and facilities of Federal and other agencies with or without reimbursement, and on a similar basis to cooperate with other public and private agencies and instrumentalities in the use of services, equipment, and facilities.
  (d) Payments; advances; reimbursement; installments
     Payments under this subchapter may be made in advance or by way of reimbursement and in such installments as the Secretary may determine.
  (e) Delegation of functions prohibited
     The Secretary shall not delegate any function of the Secretary under this subchapter to any other department or agency of the Federal Government.
  (f) Senior Environmental Employment Corps and energy conservation projects
     In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary may fund and expand projects concerning the Senior Environmental Employment Corps and energy conservation from sums appropriated under section 3056f of this title for such fiscal year.
