  (a) Recovery Planning Council; designation; membership
    (1) In the case of any area affected by a major disaster the Governor may request the President for assistance under this subchapter. The Governor, within thirty days after authorization of such assistance by the President, shall designate a Recovery Planning Council for such area or for each part thereof.
    (2) Such Recovery Planning Council shall be composed of not less than five members, a majority of whom shall be local elected officials of political subdivisions within the affected areas, at least one representative of the State, and a representative of the Federal Government appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph (3) of this subsection. During the major disaster, the Federal coordinating officer shall also serve on the Recovery Planning Council.
    (3) The Federal representative on such Recovery Planning Council may be the Chairman of the Federal Regional Council for the affected area, or a member of the Federal Regional Council designated by the Chairman of such Regional Council. The Federal representative on such Recovery Planning Council may be the Federal Cochairman of the Regional Commission established pursuant to subchapter V \1\N of this chapter, or the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 [40 App. U.S.C. 1 et seq.] or his designee, where all of the area affected by a major disaster is within the boundaries of such Commission.
    (4) The Governor may designate an existing multijurisdictional organization as the Recovery Planning Council where such organization complies with paragraph (2) of this subsection with the addition of State and Federal representatives except that if all or part of an area affected by a major disaster is within the jurisdiction of an existing multijurisdictional organization established under subchapter IV of this chapter or title III of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 [40 App. U.S.C. 301 et seq.], such organization, with the addition of State and Federal representatives in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection, shall be designated by the Governor as the Recovery Planning Council. In any case in which such title III or subchapter IV organization is designated as the Recovery Planning Council under this paragraph, some local elected officials of political subdivisions within the affected areas must be appointed to serve on such Recovery Planning Council. Where possible, the organization designated as the Recovery Planning Council shall be or shall be subsequently designated as the appropriate agency required by section 3334 of this title and by chapter 65 of title 31.
    (5) The Recovery Planning Council shall include private citizens as members to the extent feasible, and shall provide for and encourage public participation in its deliberations and decisions.
  (b) Review and revision of plans
     The Recovery Planning Council (1) shall review existing plans for the affected area; and (2) may recommend to the Governor and responsible local governments such revisions as it determines necessary for the economic recovery of the area, including the development of new plans and the preparation of a recovery investment plan for the 5–year period following the declaration of the major disaster. The Recovery Planning Council shall accept as one element of the recovery investment plans determinations made under section 5172(c) of this title.
  (c) Recovery investment plan; reserve funds
    (1) A recovery investment plan prepared by a Recovery Planning Council may recommend the revision, deletion, reprograming, or additional approval of Federal-aid projects and programs within the area–
      (A) for which application has been made but approval not yet granted;
      (B) for which funds have been obligated or approval granted but construction not yet begun;
      (C) for which funds have been or are scheduled to be apportioned within the five years after the declaration of the disaster;
      (D) which may otherwise be available to the area under any State schedule or revised State schedule of priorities; or
      (E) which may reasonably be anticipated as becoming available under existing programs.
    (2) Upon the recommendation of the Recovery Planning Council and the request of the Governor, any funds for projects or programs identified pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection may, to any extent consistent with appropriation Acts, be placed in reserve by the responsible Federal agency for use in accordance with such recommendations. Upon the request of the Governor and with the concurrence of affected local governments, such funds may be transferred to the Recovery Planning Council to be expended in the implementation of the recovery investment plan, except that no such transfer may be made unless such expenditure is for a project or program for which such funds originally were made available by an appropriation Act.
