   As used in this subchapter–
  (1) ””Areawide development““ means all projects or programs for the acquisition, use, and development of open-space land; and the planning and construction of hospitals, libraries, airports, water supply and distribution facilities, sewerage facilities and waste treatment works, transportation facilities, highways, water development and land conservation, and other public works facilities.
  (2) ””Areawide development project““ means a project assisted or to be assisted under section 702 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3102]; section 606 of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 291f]; section 8 \1\N of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [33 U.S.C. 1158]; section 120(a) of title 23; section 12 \1\ of the Federal Airport Act; section 19 \1\ of the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970; section 5309 of title 49; title VII of the Housing Act of 1961 [42 U.S.C. 1500 et seq.]; or section 5(e) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 [16 U.S.C. 460T3lK–8(e)]; or under section 101(a)(1) of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3131(a)(1)] (for a project of a type which the Secretary determines to be eligible for assistance under any of the other provisions listed above).
  (3) ””State““ means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or an agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing.
  (4) ””Metropolitan area““ means a standard metropolitan statistical area as established by the Office of Management and Budget, subject however to such modifications and extensions as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate for the purposes of this subchapter.
  (5) ””Comprehensive planning““ includes the following, to the extent directly related to area needs or needs of a unit of general local government: (A) preparation, as a guide for long-range development, of general physical plans with respect to the pattern and intensity of land use and the provision of public facilities, including transportation facilities; (B) programing of capital improvements based on a determination of relative urgency; (C) long-range fiscal plans for implementing such plans and programs; and (D) proposed regulatory and administrative measures which aid in achieving coordination of all related plans of the departments or subdivisions of the governments concerned and intergovernmental coordination of related planned activities among the State and local governmental agencies concerned.
  (6) ””Hospital““ means any public health center or general, tuberculosis, mental, chronic disease, or other type of hospital and related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient departments, nurses“ home and training facilities, and central service facilities normally operated in connection with hospitals, but does not include any hospital furnishing primarily domiciliary care.
  (7) ””Areawide agency““ means an official State, metropolitan, regional, or district agency empowered under State or local laws or under an interstate compact or agreement to perform comprehensive planning in an area, an organization of the type referred to in section 701(g) \1\ of the Housing Act of 1954 [40 U.S.C. 461(g)]; or such other agency or instrumentality as may be designated by the Governor (or, in the case of areas crossing State lines, any one or more of such agencies or instrumentalities as may be designated by the Governors of the States involved) to perform such planning.
  (8) ””Special purpose unit of local government““ means any special district, public-purpose corporation, or other limited-purpose political subdivision of a State, but shall not include a school district.
  (9) ””Unit of general local government““ means any city, county, town, parish, village, or other general-purpose political subdivision of a State.
  (10) ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
