  (a) Discharge of patient and dismissal of proceedings; notice of time and place; service; issues of fact: demand for jury or judicial determination
     If both examining physicians (referred to in section 3413 of this title) conclude in their respective written reports that the patient is not a narcotic addict, or is an addict not likely to be rehabilitated through treatment, the court shall immediately enter an order discharging the patient and dismissing the proceedings under this subchapter. If the written report of either such physician indicates that the patient is a narcotic addict who is likely to be rehabilitated through treatment, or that the physician submitting the report is unable to reach any conclusion by reason of the refusal of the patient to submit to a thorough examination, the court shall promptly set the case for hearing. The court shall cause a written notice of the time and place of such hearing to be served personally upon the patient and his attorney. Such notice shall also inform the patient that upon demand made by him within fifteen days after he has been served, he shall be entitled to have all issues of fact with respect to his alleged narcotic addiction determined by a jury. If no timely demand for a jury is made, the court, in conducting such hearing, shall determine all issues of fact without a jury.
  (b) Evidence; patient“s testimony; examinations and cross-examinations; judicial review of orders of commitment
     In conducting any hearing under this subchapter, the court shall receive and consider all relevant evidence and testimony which may be offered, including the contents of the reports referred to in section 3413 of this title. Any patient with respect to whom a hearing is held under this subchapter shall be entitled to testify and to present and cross-examine witnesses. All final orders of commitment under this subchapter shall be subject to review in conformity with the provisions of sections 1254 and 1291 of title 28.
  (c) Detention of patient
     Any patient with respect to whom a hearing has been set under this subchapter may be detained by the court for a reasonable period of time in a suitable hospital or other facility designated by the court until after such hearing has been concluded.
  (d) Witness fees and mileage
     Witnesses subpenaed by either party under the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid the same fees and mileage as are paid to other witnesses in the courts of the United States.
