  (a)    (1) In carrying out this subchapter, the Director shall consult with the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services, and any other Federal agencies administering relevant programs with a view to achieving optimal coordination with such other programs, and shall promote the coordination of projects under this subchapter with other public or private programs or projects carried out at State and local levels. Such Federal agencies shall cooperate with the Director in disseminating information about the availability of assistance under this subchapter and in promoting the identification and interest of low-income and other older persons whose services may be utilized in projects under this subchapter.
    (2) To the maximum extent practicable, the Director shall enter into agreements with–
      (A) the Department of Health and Human Services to–
        (i) involve retired and senior volunteers, and foster grandparents, in Head Start programs;
        (ii) involve retired and senior volunteers, and senior companions, in providing services authorized by title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.]; and
        (iii) promote the recognition of such volunteers who are qualified to provide in-home services for reimbursement under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.] for providing such services;
      (B) the Department of Education to promote intergenerational tutoring and mentoring for at-risk children; and
      (C) the Environmental Protection Agency to support conservation efforts.
  (b)    (1) In carrying out this subchapter, the Director shall encourage and facilitate the efforts of private organizations to promote the programs established in parts A, B, and C of this subchapter and the involvement of older individuals as volunteers in such programs.
    (2) The Director shall take appropriate actions to ensure that special efforts are made to publicize the programs established in parts A, B, and C of this subchapter, in order to facilitate recruitment efforts, to encourage greater participation of volunteers, and to emphasize the value of volunteering to the health and well-being of volunteers and the communities of such volunteers. Such actions shall include informing recipients of grants and contracts under this subchapter of all informational materials available from the Director.
    (3) From funds appropriated under section 5082 of this title, the Director shall expend not less than $375,000 in each fiscal year to carry out paragraph (2).
