  (a) Program grants for national problems of local concern; minimum amounts available; scope; implementation
    (1) With not less than one-third of the funds made available under subsection (d) of this section in each fiscal year, the Director shall make grants under the programs authorized in parts A, B, and C of this subchapter to support programs that address national problems of local concern.
    (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Director may make such grants–
      (A) under the program authorized in part A of this subchapter, to support programs that address the national problems specified in subsection (b) of this section;
      (B) under the program authorized in part B of this subchapter, to support programs that address the national problems specified in subsection (b) of this section, other than paragraphs (10), (12), (15), and (16) of such subsection; and
      (C) under the program authorized in part C of this subchapter, to support programs that address the national problems referred to in paragraphs (1), (2), (5), (6), and (10) of subsection (b) of this section.
    (3) Each program for which a grant is received under this subsection shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements applicable to the program under part A, B, or C of this subchapter under which the program supported by such grant is to be carried out.
  (b) Program grants for problems concerning Nation
     The Director shall make grants under subsection (a) of this section to support one or more of the following programs to address problems that concern the Nation:
    (1) Programs that assist individuals with chronic and debilitating illnesses, such as acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
    (2) Programs designed to decrease drug and alcohol abuse.
    (3) Programs that work with teenage parents.
    (4) Programs that match volunteer mentors with youth who need guidance.
    (5) Programs that provide adult and school-based literacy assistance.
    (6) Programs that provide respite care, including care for frail elderly individuals and for disabled or chronically ill children living at home.
    (7) Programs that provide before- and after-school activities that are sponsored by organizations, such as libraries, that serve children of working parents.
    (8) Programs that work with boarder babies.
    (9) Programs that serve children who are enrolled in child care programs, giving priority to such programs that serve children with special needs.
    (10) Programs that provide care to developmentally disabled adults who reside at home and in community-based settings, including programs that, when appropriate, involve older developmentally disabled individuals as volunteers under this subchapter.
    (11) Programs that provide volunteer tutors to assist educationally disadvantaged children, on a one-to-one basis, to improve the basic skills of such children.
    (12) Programs that address environmental needs.
    (13) Programs that reach out to organizations (such as labor unions and profitmaking organizations) not previously involved in addressing national problems of local concern.
    (14) Programs that provide for outreach to increase participation of members of ethnic groups who have limited English proficiency.
    (15) Programs that support criminal justice activities and juvenile justice activities.
    (16) Programs that involve older volunteers working with young people in apprenticeship programs.
    (17) Programs that support the community integration of individuals with disabilities.
    (18) Programs that provide health, education, and welfare services that augment the activities of State and local agencies, to be carried out in a fiscal year for which the aggregate amount of funds available to such agencies is not less than the annual average aggregate amount of funds available to such agencies for the period of 3 fiscal years preceding such fiscal year.
  (c) Eligibility of applicant; supplemental nature of funds available
    (1) In order for an applicant to be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a) of this section, such applicant shall demonstrate to the Director that such grant will be used to increase the total number of volunteers supported by such applicant.
    (2) Funds made available under subsection (d) of this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant the number of volunteers engaged in activities under parts A, B, and C of this subchapter (without regard to this section) addressing the problem for which such funds are awarded unless such sums are an extension of funds previously provided under this section.
  (d) Amount of funds available for grants
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), from the amounts appropriated under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of section 5082 of this title, for each fiscal year there shall be available to the Director such sums as may be necessary to make grants under subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) No funds shall be available to the Director to make grants under subsection (a) of this section for a fiscal year unless the amounts appropriated under subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 5082 of this title and available for such fiscal year to carry out parts A, B, and C of this subchapter (without regard to this section) are sufficient to maintain the number of projects and volunteers funded under parts A, B, and C of this subchapter, respectively, in the preceding fiscal year.
  (e) Dissemination of information respecting grants
     The Director shall disseminate information on grants that may be made under subsection (a) of this section to field personnel of the Corporation and to community volunteer organizations that request such information.
