  (a) Contributions
     The President may make contributions–
    (1) to a State or local government for the repair, restoration, reconstruction, or replacement of a public facility which is damaged or destroyed by a major disaster and for associated expenses incurred by such government; and
    (2) to a person who owns or operates a private nonprofit facility damaged or destroyed by a major disaster for the repair, restoration, reconstruction, or replacement of such facility and for associated expenses incurred by such person.
  (b) Minimum Federal share
     The Federal share of assistance under this section shall be not less than–
    (1) 75 percent of the net eligible cost of repair, restoration, reconstruction, or replacement carried out under this section;
    (2) 100 percent of associated expenses described in subsections (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section; and
    (3) 75 percent of associated expenses described in subsections (f)(3), (f)(4), and (f)(5) of this section.
  (c) Large in lieu contributions
    (1) For public facilities
       In any case where a State or local government determines that the public welfare would not be best served by repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing any public facility owned or controlled by such State or local government, it may elect to receive, in lieu of a contribution under subsection (a)(1) of this section, a contribution of not to exceed 90 percent of the Federal share of the Federal estimate of the cost of repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing such facility and of associated expenses. Funds contributed under this subsection may be used to repair, restore, or expand other selected public facilities, to construct new facilities, or to fund hazard mitigation measures which the State or local government determines to be necessary to meet a need for governmental services and functions in the area affected by the major disaster.
    (2) For private nonprofit facilities
       In any case where a person who owns or operates a private nonprofit facility determines that the public welfare would not be best served by repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing such facility, such person may elect to receive, in lieu of a contribution under subsection (a)(2) of this section, a contribution of not to exceed 90 percent of the Federal share of the Federal estimate of the cost of repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing such facility and of associated expenses. Funds contributed under this subsection may be used to repair, restore, or expand other selected private nonprofit facilities owned or operated by such person, to construct new private nonprofit facilities to be owned or operated by such person, or to fund hazard mitigation measures which such person determines to be necessary to meet a need for its services and functions in the area affected by the major disaster.
    (3) Restriction on use for State or local contribution
       Funds provided under this subsection shall not be used for any State or local government cost-sharing contribution required under this chapter.
  (d) Flood insurance
    (1) Reduction of Federal assistance
       If a public facility or private nonprofit facility located in a special flood hazard area identified for more than 1 year by the Director pursuant to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) is damaged or destroyed, after the 180th day following November 23, 1988, by flooding in a major disaster and such facility is not covered on the date of such flooding by flood insurance, the Federal assistance which would otherwise be available under this section with respect to repair, restoration, reconstruction, and replacement of such facility and associated expenses shall be reduced in accordance with paragraph (2).
    (2) Amount of reduction
       The amount of a reduction in Federal assistance under this section with respect to a facility shall be the lesser of–
      (A) the value of such facility on the date of the flood damage or destruction, or
      (B) the maximum amount of insurance proceeds which would have been payable with respect to such facility if such facility had been covered by flood insurance under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 on such date.
    (3) Exception
       Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply to a private nonprofit facility which is not covered by flood insurance solely because of the local government“s failure to participate in the flood insurance program established by the National Flood Insurance Act.
    (4) Dissemination of information
       The President shall disseminate information regarding the reduction in Federal assistance provided for by this subsection to State and local governments and the owners and operators of private nonprofit facilities who may be affected by such a reduction.
  (e) Net eligible cost
    (1) General rule
       For purposes of this section, the cost of repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing a public facility or private nonprofit facility on the basis of the design of such facility as it existed immediately prior to the major disaster and in conformity with current applicable codes, specifications, and standards (including floodplain management and hazard mitigation criteria required by the President or by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.)) shall, at a minimum, be treated as the net eligible cost of such repair, restoration, reconstruction, or replacement.
    (2) Special rule
       In any case in which the facility being repaired, restored, reconstructed, or replaced under this section was under construction on the date of the major disaster, the cost of repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing such facility shall include, for purposes of this section, only those costs which, under the contract for such construction, are the owner“s responsibility and not the contractor“s responsibility.
  (f) Associated expenses
     For purposes of this section, associated expenses include the following:
    (1) Necessary costs
       Necessary costs of requesting, obtaining, and administering Federal assistance based on a percentage of assistance provided as follows:
      (A) For an applicant whose net eligible costs equal less than $100,000, 3 percent of such net eligible costs.
      (B) For an applicant whose net eligible costs equal $100,000 or more but less than $1,000,000, $3,000 plus 2 percent of such net eligible costs in excess of $100,000.
      (C) For an applicant whose net eligible costs equal $1,000,000 or more but less than $5,000,000, $21,000 plus 1 percent of such net eligible costs in excess of $1,000,000.
      (D) For an applicant whose net eligible costs equal $5,000,000 or more, $61,000 plus \1/2\ percent of such net eligible costs in excess of $5,000,000.
    (2) Extraordinary costs
       Extraordinary costs incurred by a State for preparation of damage survey reports, final inspection reports, project applications, final audits, and related field inspections by State employees, including overtime pay and per diem and travel expenses of such employees, but not including pay for regular time of such employees, based on the total amount of assistance provided under sections 5170b, 5170c, 5172, 5173, 5192, and 5193 of this title in such State in connection with the major disaster as follows:
      (A) If such total amount is less than $100,000, 3 percent of such total amount.
      (B) If such total amount is $100,000 or more but less than $1,000,000, $3,000 plus 2 percent of such total amount in excess of $100,000.
      (C) If such total amount is $1,000,000 or more but less than $5,000,000, $21,000 plus 1 percent of such total amount in excess of $1,000,000.
      (D) If such total amount is $5,000,000 or more, $61,000 plus \1/2\ percent of such total amount in excess of $5,000,000.
    (3) Costs of National Guard
       The costs of mobilizing and employing the National Guard for performance of eligible work.
    (4) Costs of prison labor
       The costs of using prison labor to perform eligible work, including wages actually paid, transportation to a worksite, and extraordinary costs of guards, food, and lodging.
    (5) Other labor costs
       Base and overtime wages for an applicant“s employees and extra hires performing eligible work plus fringe benefits on such wages to the extent that such benefits were being paid before the disaster.
