  (a) Provision of temporary housing
    (1) In general
       The President may–
      (A) provide, by purchase or lease, temporary housing (including unoccupied habitable dwellings), suitable rental housing, mobile homes, or other readily fabricated dwellings to persons who, as a result of a major disaster, require temporary housing; and
      (B) reimburse State and local governments in accordance with paragraph (4) for the cost of sites provided under paragraph (2).
    (2) Mobile home site
      (A) In general
         Any mobile home or other readily fabricated dwelling provided under this section shall whenever possible be located on a site which–
        (i) is provided by the State or local government; and
        (ii) has utilities provided by the State or local government, by the owner of the site, or by the occupant who was displaced by the major disaster.
      (B) Other sites
         Mobile homes and other readily fabricated dwellings may be located on sites provided by the President if the President determines that such sites would be more economical or accessible than sites described in subparagraph (A).
    (3) Period
       Federal financial and operational assistance under this section shall continue for not longer than 18 months after the date of the major disaster declaration by the President, unless the President determines that due to extraordinary circumstances it would be in the public interest to extend such 18-month period.
    (4) Federal share
       The Federal share of assistance under this section shall be 100 percent; except that the Federal share of assistance under this section for construction and site development costs (including installation of utilities) at a mobile home group site shall be 75 percent of the eligible cost of such assistance. The State or local government receiving assistance under this section shall pay any cost which is not paid for from the Federal share.
  (b) Temporary mortgage and rental payments
     The President is authorized to provide assistance on a temporary basis in the form of mortgage or rental payments to or on behalf of individuals and families who, as a result of financial hardship caused by a major disaster, have received written notice of dispossession or eviction from a residence by reason of a foreclosure of any mortgage or lien, cancellation of any contract of sale, or termination of any lease, entered into prior to such disaster. Such assistance shall be provided for the duration of the period of financial hardship but not to exceed 18 months.
  (c) In lieu expenditures
     In lieu of providing other types of temporary housing after a major disaster, the President is authorized to make expenditures for the purpose of repairing or restoring to a habitable condition owner-occupied private residential structures made uninhabitable by a major disaster which are capable of being restored quickly to a habitable condition.
  (d) Transfer of temporary housing
    (1) Direct sale to occupants
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any temporary housing acquired by purchase may be sold directly to individuals and families who are occupants of temporary housing at prices that are fair and equitable, as determined by the President.
    (2) Transfers to States, local governments, and voluntary organizations
       The President may sell or otherwise make available temporary housing units directly to States, other governmental entities, and voluntary organizations. The President shall impose as a condition of transfer under this paragraph a covenant to comply with the provisions of section 5151 of this title requiring nondiscrimination in occupancy of such temporary housing units. Such disposition shall be limited to units purchased under the provisions of subsection (a) of this section and to the purposes of providing temporary housing for disaster victims in major disasters or emergencies.
  (e) Notification
    (1) In general
       Each person who applies for assistance under this section shall be notified regarding the type and amount of any assistance for which such person qualifies. Whenever practicable, such notice shall be provided within 7 days after the date of submission of such application.
    (2) Information
       Notification under this subsection shall provide information regarding–
      (A) all forms of such assistance available;
      (B) any specific criteria which must be met to qualify for each type of assistance that is available;
      (C) any limitations which apply to each type of assistance; and
      (D) the address and telephone number of offices responsible for responding to–
        (i) appeals of determinations of eligibility for assistance; and
        (ii) requests for changes in the type or amount of assistance provided.
  (f) Location
     In providing assistance under this section, consideration shall be given to the location of and travel time to–
    (1) the applicant“s home and place of business;
    (2) schools which the applicant or members of the applicant“s family who reside with the applicant attend; and
    (3) crops or livestock which the applicant tends in the course of any involvement in farming which provides 25 percent or more of the applicant“s annual income.
