  (a) Establishment; membership
    (1) There is hereby established, as an independent organization in the executive branch of the Federal Government a Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention composed of the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, such other officers of Federal agencies who hold significant decisionmaking authority as the President may designate, and individuals appointed under paragraph (2).
    (2)      (A) Nine members shall be appointed, without regard to political affiliation, to the Council in accordance with this paragraph from among individuals who are practitioners in the field of juvenile justice and who are not officers or employees of the United States.
      (B)        (i) Three members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, after consultation with the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
        (ii) Three members shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, after consultation with the minority leader of the Senate.
        (iii) Three members shall be appointed by the President.
      (C)        (i) Of the members appointed under each of clauses (i), (ii), and (iii)–
          (I) 1 shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;
          (II) 1 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and
          (III) 1 shall be appointed for a term of 3 years;
             as designated at the time of appointment.
        (ii) Except as provided in clause (iii), a vacancy arising during the term for which an appointment is made may be filled only for the remainder of such term.
        (iii) After the expiration of the term for which a member is appointed, such member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed.
  (b) Chairman and Vice Chairman
     The Attorney General shall serve as Chairman of the Council. The Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention shall serve as Vice Chairman of the Council. The Vice Chairman shall act as Chairman in the absence of the Chairman.
  (c) Functions
    (1) The function of the Council shall be to coordinate all Federal juvenile delinquency programs (in cooperation with State and local juvenile justice programs) all Federal programs and activities that detain or care for unaccompanied juveniles, and all Federal programs relating to missing and exploited children. The Council shall examine how the separate programs can be coordinated among Federal, State, and local governments to better serve at-risk children and juveniles and shall make recommendations to the President, and to the Congress, at least annually with respect to the coordination of overall policy and development of objectives and priorities for all Federal juvenile delinquency programs and activities and all Federal programs and activities that detain or care for unaccompanied juveniles. The Council shall review the programs and practices of Federal agencies and report on the degree to which Federal agency funds are used for purposes which are consistent or inconsistent with the mandates of paragraphs (12)(A), (13), and (14) of section 5633(a) of this title. The Council shall review, and make recommendations with respect to, any joint funding proposal undertaken by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention and any agency represented on the Council. The Council shall review the reasons why Federal agencies take juveniles into custody and shall make recommendations regarding how to improve Federal practices and facilities for holding juveniles in custody.
    (2) In addition to performing their functions as members of the Council, the members appointed under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall collectively–
      (A) make recommendations regarding the development of the objectives, priorities, and the long-term plan, and the implementation of overall policy and the strategy to carry out such plan, referred to in section 5614(a)(1) of this title; and
      (B) not later than 180 days after November 4, 1992, submit such recommendations to the Administrator, the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives, and the Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
  (d) Meetings
     The Council shall meet at least quarterly.
  (e) Appointment of personnel or staff support by Administrator
     The Administrator shall, with the approval of the Council, appoint such personnel or staff support as the Administrator considers necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
  (f) Expenses of Council members; reimbursement
     Members appointed under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall serve without compensation. Members of the Council shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in carrying out the duties of the Council.
  (g) Authorization of appropriations
     Of sums available to carry out this part, not more than $200,000 shall be available to carry out this section.
