  (a) The Congress authorizes and directs that the comprehensive program in research, development, and demonstration required by this chapter shall be designed and executed according to the following principles:
    (1) Energy conservation shall be a primary consideration in the design and implementation of the Federal nonnuclear energy program. For the purposes of this chapter, energy conservation means both improvement in efficiency of energy production and use, and reduction in energy waste.
    (2) The environmental and social consequences of a proposed program shall be analyzed and considered in evaluating its potential.
    (3) Any program for the development of a technology which may require significant consumptive use of water after the technology has reached the stage of commercial application shall include thorough consideration of the impacts of such technology and use on water resources pursuant to the provisions of section 5912 of this title.
    (4) Heavy emphasis shall be given to those technologies which utilize renewable or essentially inexhaustible energy sources.
    (5) The potential for production of net energy by the proposed technology at the stage of commercial application shall be analyzed and considered in evaluating proposals.
  (b) The Congress further directs that the execution of the comprehensive research, development, and demonstration program shall conform to the following principles:
    (1) Research and development of nonnuclear energy sources shall be pursued in such a way as to facilitate the commercial availability of adequate supplies of energy to all regions of the United States.
    (2) In determining the appropriateness of Federal involvement in any particular research and development undertaking, the Secretary shall give consideration to the extent to which the proposed undertaking satisfies criteria including, but not limited to, the following:
      (A) The urgency of public need for the potential results of the research, development, or demonstration effort is high, and it is unlikely that similar results would be achieved in a timely manner in the absence of Federal assistance.
      (B) The potential opportunities for non-Federal interests to recapture the investment in the undertaking through the normal commercial utilization of proprietary knowledge appear inadequate to encourage timely results.
      (C) The extent of the problems treated and the objectives sought by the undertaking are national or widespread in their significance.
      (D) There are limited opportunities to induce non-Federal support of the undertaking through regulatory actions, end use controls, tax and price incentives, public education, or other alternatives to direct Federal financial assistance.
      (E) The degree of risk of loss of investment inherent in the research is high, and the availability or risk capital to the non-Federal entities which might otherwise engage in the field of the research is inadequate for the timely development of the technology.
      (F) The magnitude of the investment appears to exceed the financial capabilities of potential non-Federal participants in the research to support effective efforts.
