  (a) Quarterly reports by States
    (1) General reporting requirement
      (A) Contents of report
         Each eligible State shall collect on a monthly basis, and report to the Secretary on a quarterly basis, the following disaggregated case record information on the families receiving assistance under the State program funded under this part:
        (i) The county of residence of the family.
        (ii) Whether a child receiving such assistance or an adult in the family is disabled.
        (iii) The ages of the members of such families.
        (iv) The number of individuals in the family, and the relation of each family member to the youngest child in the family.
        (v) The employment status and earnings of the employed adult in the family.
        (vi) The marital status of the adults in the family, including whether such adults have never married, are widowed, or are divorced.
        (vii) The race and educational status of each adult in the family.
        (viii) The race and educational status of each child in the family.
        (ix) Whether the family received subsidized housing, medical assistance under the State plan approved under subchapter XIX of this chapter, food stamps, or subsidized child care, and if the latter 2, the amount received.
        (x) The number of months that the family has received each type of assistance under the program.
        (xi) If the adults participated in, and the number of hours per week of participation in, the following activities:
          (I) Education.
          (II) Subsidized private sector employment.
          (III) Unsubsidized employment.
          (IV) Public sector employment, work experience, or community service.
          (V) Job search.
          (VI) Job skills training or on-the-job training.
          (VII) Vocational education.
        (xii) Information necessary to calculate participation rates under section 607 of this title.
        (xiii) The type and amount of assistance received under the program, including the amount of and reason for any reduction of assistance (including sanctions).
        (xiv) Any amount of unearned income received by any member of the family.
        (xv) The citizenship of the members of the family.
        (xvi) From a sample of closed cases, whether the family left the program, and if so, whether the family left due to–
          (I) employment;
          (II) marriage;
          (III) the prohibition set forth in section 608(a)(7) of this title;
          (IV) sanction; or
          (V) State policy.
      (B) Use of estimates
        (i) Authority
           A State may comply with subparagraph (A) by submitting an estimate which is obtained through the use of scientifically acceptable sampling methods approved by the Secretary.
        (ii) Sampling and other methods
           The Secretary shall provide the States with such case sampling plans and data collection procedures as the Secretary deems necessary to produce statistically valid estimates of the performance of State programs funded under this part. The Secretary may develop and implement procedures for verifying the quality of data submitted by the States.
    (2) Report on use of Federal funds to cover administrative costs and overhead
       The report required by paragraph (1) for a fiscal quarter shall include a statement of the percentage of the funds paid to the State under this part for the quarter that are used to cover administrative costs or overhead.
    (3) Report on State expenditures on programs for needy families
       The report required by paragraph (1) for a fiscal quarter shall include a statement of the total amount expended by the State during the quarter on programs for needy families.
    (4) Report on noncustodial parents participating in work activities
       The report required by paragraph (1) for a fiscal quarter shall include the number of noncustodial parents in the State who participated in work activities (as defined in section 607(d) of this title) during the quarter.
    (5) Report on transitional services
       The report required by paragraph (1) for a fiscal quarter shall include the total amount expended by the State during the quarter to provide transitional services to a family that has ceased to receive assistance under this part because of employment, along with a description of such services.
    (6) Regulations
       The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to define the data elements with respect to which reports are required by this subsection.
  (b) Annual reports to Congress by Secretary
     Not later than 6 months after the end of fiscal year 1997, and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a report describing–
    (1) whether the States are meeting–
      (A) the participation rates described in section 607(a) of this title; and
      (B) the objectives of–
        (i) increasing employment and earnings of needy families, and child support collections; and
        (ii) decreasing out-of-wedlock pregnancies and child poverty;
    (2) the demographic and financial characteristics of families applying for assistance, families receiving assistance, and families that become ineligible to receive assistance;
    (3) the characteristics of each State program funded under this part; and
    (4) the trends in employment and earnings of needy families with minor children living at home.
