  (a) Grants for Indian tribes
    (1) Tribal family assistance grant
      (A) In general
         For each of fiscal years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002, the Secretary shall pay to each Indian tribe that has an approved tribal family assistance plan a tribal family assistance grant for the fiscal year in an amount equal to the amount determined under subparagraph (B), and shall reduce the grant payable under section 603(a)(1) of this title to any State in which lies the service area or areas of the Indian tribe by that portion of the amount so determined that is attributable to expenditures by the State.
      (B) Amount determined
        (i) In general
           The amount determined under this subparagraph is an amount equal to the total amount of the Federal payments to a State or States under section 603 of this title (as in effect during such fiscal year) for fiscal year 1994 attributable to expenditures (other than child care expenditures) by the State or States under parts A and F of this subchapter (as so in effect) for fiscal year 1994 for Indian families residing in the service area or areas identified by the Indian tribe pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(C) of this section.
        (ii) Use of State submitted data
          (I) In general
             The Secretary shall use State submitted data to make each determination under clause (i).
          (II) Disagreement with determination
             If an Indian tribe or tribal organization disagrees with State submitted data described under subclause (I), the Indian tribe or tribal organization may submit to the Secretary such additional information as may be relevant to making the determination under clause (i) and the Secretary may consider such information before making such determination.
    (2) Grants for Indian tribes that received jobs funds
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall pay to each eligible Indian tribe for each of fiscal years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002 a grant in an amount equal to the amount received by the Indian tribe in fiscal year 1994 under section 682(i) of this title (as in effect during fiscal year 1994).
      (B) Eligible Indian tribe
         For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term ””eligible Indian tribe““ means an Indian tribe or Alaska Native organization that conducted a job opportunities and basic skills training program in fiscal year 1995 under section 682(i) of this title (as in effect during fiscal year 1995).
      (C) Use of grant
         Each Indian tribe to which a grant is made under this paragraph shall use the grant for the purpose of operating a program to make work activities available to members of the Indian tribe.
      (D) Appropriation
         Out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated $7,638,474 for each fiscal year specified in subparagraph (A) for grants under subparagraph (A).
  (b) 3-year tribal family assistance plan
    (1) In general
       Any Indian tribe that desires to receive a tribal family assistance grant shall submit to the Secretary a 3-year tribal family assistance plan that–
      (A) outlines the Indian tribe“s approach to providing welfare-related services for the 3-year period, consistent with this section;
      (B) specifies whether the welfare-related services provided under the plan will be provided by the Indian tribe or through agreements, contracts, or compacts with intertribal consortia, States, or other entities;
      (C) identifies the population and service area or areas to be served by such plan;
      (D) provides that a family receiving assistance under the plan may not receive duplicative assistance from other State or tribal programs funded under this part;
      (E) identifies the employment opportunities in or near the service area or areas of the Indian tribe and the manner in which the Indian tribe will cooperate and participate in enhancing such opportunities for recipients of assistance under the plan consistent with any applicable State standards; and
      (F) applies the fiscal accountability provisions of section 5(f)(1) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450c(f)(1)), relating to the submission of a single-agency audit report required by chapter 75 of title 31.
    (2) Approval
       The Secretary shall approve each tribal family assistance plan submitted in accordance with paragraph (1).
    (3) Consortium of tribes
       Nothing in this section shall preclude the development and submission of a single tribal family assistance plan by the participating Indian tribes of an intertribal consortium.
  (c) Minimum work participation requirements and time limits
     The Secretary, with the participation of Indian tribes, shall establish for each Indian tribe receiving a grant under this section minimum work participation requirements, appropriate time limits for receipt of welfare-related services under the grant, and penalties against individuals–
    (1) consistent with the purposes of this section;
    (2) consistent with the economic conditions and resources available to each tribe; and
    (3) similar to comparable provisions in section 607(e) of this title.
  (d) Emergency assistance
     Nothing in this section shall preclude an Indian tribe from seeking emergency assistance from any Federal loan program or emergency fund.
  (e) Accountability
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of the Secretary to maintain program funding accountability consistent with–
    (1) generally accepted accounting principles; and
    (2) the requirements of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).
  (f) Penalties
    (1) Subsections (a)(1), (a)(6), and (b) of section 609 of this title, shall apply to an Indian tribe with an approved tribal assistance plan in the same manner as such subsections apply to a State.
    (2) Section 609(a)(3) of this title shall apply to an Indian tribe with an approved tribal assistance plan by substituting ””meet minimum work participation requirements established under section 612(c) of this title““ for ””comply with section 607(a) of this title““.
  (g) Data collection and reporting
     Section 611 of this title shall apply to an Indian tribe with an approved tribal family assistance plan.
  (h) Special rule for Indian tribes in Alaska
    (1) In general
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (2), an Indian tribe in the State of Alaska that receives a tribal family assistance grant under this section shall use the grant to operate a program in accordance with requirements comparable to the requirements applicable to the program of the State of Alaska funded under this part. Comparability of programs shall be established on the basis of program criteria developed by the Secretary in consultation with the State of Alaska and such Indian tribes.
    (2) Waiver
       An Indian tribe described in paragraph (1) may apply to the appropriate State authority to receive a waiver of the requirement of paragraph (1).
