  (a) Export restrictions
     The President may, by rule, under such terms and conditions as he determines to be appropriate and necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, restrict exports of–
    (1) coal, petroleum products, natural gas, or petrochemical feedstocks, and
    (2) supplies of materials or equipment which he determines to be necessary (A) to maintain or further exploration, production, refining, or transportation of energy supplies, or (B) for the construction or maintenance of energy facilities within the United States.
  (b) Exemptions
    (1) The President shall exercise the authority provided for in subsection (a) of this section to promulgate a rule prohibiting the export of crude oil and natural gas produced in the United States, except that the President may, pursuant to paragraph (2), exempt from such prohibition such crude oil or natural gas exports which he determines to be consistent with the national interest and the purposes of this chapter.
    (2) Exemptions from any rule prohibiting crude oil or natural gas exports shall be included in such rule or provided for in an amendment thereto and may be based on the purpose for export, class of seller or purchaser, country of destination, or any other reasonable classification or basis as the President determines to be appropriate and consistent with the national interest and the purposes of this chapter.
  (c) Implementing restrictions
     In order to implement any rule promulgated under subsection (a) of this section, the President may request and, if so, the Secretary of Commerce shall, pursuant to the procedures established by the Export Administration Act of 1979 [50 App. U.S.C. 2401 et seq.] (but without regard to the phrase ””and to reduce the serious inflationary impact of foreign demand““ in section 3(2)(C) of such Act [50 App. U.S.C. 2402(2)(C)]), impose such restrictions as specified in any rule under subsection (a) of this section on exports of coal, petroleum products, natural gas, or petrochemical feedstocks, and such supplies of materials and equipment.
  (d) Restrictions and national interest
     Any finding by the President pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section and any action taken by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant thereto shall take into account the national interest as related to the need to leave uninterrupted or unimpaired–
    (1) exchanges in similar quantity for convenience or increased efficiency of transportation with persons or the government of a foreign state,
    (2) temporary exports for convenience or increased efficiency of transportation across parts of an adjacent foreign state which exports reenter the United States, and
    (3) the historical trading relations of the United States with Canada and Mexico.
  (e) Waiver of notice and comment period
    (1) The provisions of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 shall apply with respect to the promulgation of any rule pursuant to this section, except that the President may waive the requirement pertaining to the notice of proposed rulemaking or period for comment only if he finds that compliance with such requirements may seriously impair his ability to impose effective and timely prohibitions on exports.
    (2) In the event such notice and comment period are waived with respect to a rule promulgated under this section, the President shall afford interested persons an opportunity to comment on any such rule at the earliest practicable date thereafter.
    (3) If the President determines to request the Secretary of Commerce to impose specified restrictions as provided for in subsection (c) of this section, the enforcement and penalty provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1969 shall apply, in lieu of this chapter, to any violation of such restrictions.
  (f) Quarterly reports to Congress
     The President shall submit quarterly reports to the Congress concerning the administration of this section and any findings made pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section.
