  (a) Power of Secretary
     The Secretary may drawdown and distribute the Reserve only in accordance with the provisions of this section.
  (b) Drawdown and distribution of Reserve in accordance with Distribution Plan contained in Strategic Petroleum Reserve Plan
     Except as provided in subsections (c), (f), and (g) of this section, no drawdown and distribution of the Reserve may be made except in accordance with the provisions of the Distribution Plan contained in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Plan which has taken effect pursuant to section 6239(a) of this title.
  (c) Drawdown and distribution of Early Storage Reserve in accordance with Distribution Plan contained in Early Storage Reserve Plan
     Drawdown and distribution of the Early Storage Reserve may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Distribution Plan contained in the Early Storage Reserve Plan until the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Plan has taken effect pursuant to section 6239(a) of this title.
  (d) Presidential finding prerequisite to implementation of Distribution Plan
    (1) Neither the Distribution Plan contained in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Plan nor the Distribution Plan contained in the Early Storage Reserve Plan may be implemented, and no drawdown and distribution of the Reserve or the Early Storage Reserve may be made, unless the President has found that implementation of either such Distribution Plan is required by a severe energy supply interruption or by obligations of the United States under the international energy program.
    (2) For purposes of this section, in addition to the circumstances set forth in section 6202(8) of this title, a severe energy supply interruption shall be deemed to exist if the President determines that–
      (A) an emergency situation exists and there is a significant reduction in supply which is of significant scope and duration;
      (B) a severe increase in the price of petroleum products has resulted from such emergency situation; and
      (C) such price increase is likely to cause a major adverse impact on the national economy.
  (e) Price levels and allocation procedures
     The Secretary may, by rule, provide for the allocation of any petroleum product withdrawn from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in amounts specified in (or determined in a manner prescribed by) and at prices specified in (or determined in a manner prescribed by) such rules. Such price levels and allocation procedures shall be consistent with the attainment, to the maximum extent practicable, of the objectives specified in section 753(b)(1) \1\N of title 15.
  (f) Removal or disposal of products in Industrial Petroleum Reserve
     The Secretary may permit any importer or refiner who owns any petroleum products stored in the Industrial Petroleum Reserve pursuant to section 6236 of this title to remove or otherwise dispose of such products upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.
  (g) Directive to carry out test drawdown
    (1) The Secretary shall conduct a continuing evaluation of the Distribution Plan. In the conduct of such evaluation, the Secretary is authorized to carry out test drawdown and distribution of crude oil from the Reserve. If any such test drawdown includes the sale or exchange of crude oil, then the aggregate quantity of crude oil withdrawn from the Reserve may not exceed 5,000,000 barrels during any such test drawdown or distribution.
    (2) The Secretary shall carry out such drawdown and distribution in accordance with the Distribution Plan and implementing regulations and contract provisions, modified as the Secretary considers appropriate taking into consideration the artificialities of a test and the absence of a severe energy supply interruption. To meet the requirements of subsections (d) and (e) of section 6239 of this title, the Secretary shall transmit any such modification of the Plan, along with explanatory and supporting material, to both Houses of the Congress no later than 15 calendar days prior to the offering of any crude oil for sale under this subsection.
    (3) At least part of the crude oil that is sold or exchanged under this subsection shall be sold or exchanged to or with entities that are not part of the Federal Government.
    (4) The Secretary may not sell any crude oil under this subsection at a price less than that which the Secretary determines appropriate and, in no event, at a price less than 90 percent of the sales price, as estimated by the Secretary, of comparable crude oil being sold in the same area at the time the Secretary is offering crude oil for sale in such area under this subsection.
    (5) The Secretary may cancel any offer to sell or exchange crude oil as part of any drawdown and distribution under this subsection if the Secretary determines that there are insufficient acceptable offers to obtain such crude oil.
    (6)      (A) The minimum required fill rate in effect for any fiscal year shall be reduced by the amount of any crude oil drawdown from the Reserve under this subsection during such fiscal year.
      (B) In the case of a sale of any crude oil under this subsection, the Secretary shall, to the extent funds are available in the SPR Petroleum Account as a result of such sale, acquire crude oil for the Reserve within the 12-month period beginning after the completion of the sale. Such acquisition shall be in addition to any acquisition of crude oil for the Reserve required as part of a fill rate established by any other provision of law.
    (7) Rules, regulations, or orders issued in order to carry out this subsection which have the applicability and effect of a rule as defined in section 551(4) of title 5 shall not be subject to the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 5 of such title or to section 6393 of this title.
    (8) The Secretary shall transmit to both Houses of the Congress a detailed explanation of the drawdown and distribution carried out under this subsection. Such explanation may be a part of any report made to the President and the Congress under section 6245 of this title.
  (h) Prevention or reduction of adverse impact of severe domestic energy supply interruptions
    (1) If the President finds that–
      (A) a circumstance, other than those described in subsection (d) of this section, exists that constitutes, or is likely to become, a domestic or international energy supply shortage of significant scope or duration; and
      (B) action taken under this subsection would assist directly and significantly in preventing or reducing the adverse impact of such shortage,
         then the Secretary may, subject to the limitations of paragraph (2), draw down and distribute the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
    (2) In no case may the Reserve be drawn down under this subsection–
      (A) in excess of an aggregate of 30,000,000 barrels with respect to each such shortage;
      (B) for more than 60 days with respect to each such shortage;
      (C) if there are fewer than 500,000,000 barrels of petroleum product stored in the Reserve; or
      (D) below the level of an aggregate of 500,000,000 barrels of petroleum product stored in the Reserve.
    (3) During any period in which there is a drawdown and distribution of the Reserve in effect under this subsection, the Secretary shall transmit a monthly report to the Congress containing an account of the drawdown and distribution of petroleum products under this subsection and an assessment of its effect.
    (4) In no case may the drawdown under this subsection be extended beyond 60 days with respect to any domestic energy supply shortage.
      (i) Exchange of withdrawn products
         Notwithstanding any other law, the President may permit any petroleum products withdrawn from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in accordance with this section to be sold and delivered for refining or exchange outside of the United States, in connection with an arrangement for the delivery of refined petroleum products to the United States.
