  (a) In general
    (1) In the case of contracts entered into under this part, and amendments to such contracts, for which implementing legislation will be needed, the Secretary may transmit an implementing bill to both Houses of the Congress.
    (2) In the Senate, any such bill shall be considered in accordance with the provisions of this section.
    (3) For purposes of this section–
      (A) the term ””implementing bill““ means a bill introduced in either House of Congress with respect to one or more contracts or amendments to contracts submitted to the House of Representatives and the Senate under this section and which contains–
        (i) a provision approving such contracts or amendments, or both; and
        (ii) legislative provisions that are necessary or appropriate for the implementation of such contracts or amendments, or both; and
      (B) the term ””implementing revenue bill““ means an implementing bill which contains one or more revenue measures by reason of which it must originate in the House of Representatives.
  (b) Consultation
     The Secretary shall consult, at the earliest possible time and on a continuing basis, with each committee of the House and the Senate that has jurisdiction over all matters expected to be affected by legislation needed to implement any such contract.
  (c) Effective date
     Each contract and each amendment to a contract for which an implementing bill is necessary may become effective only if–
    (1) the Secretary, not less than 30 days before the day on which such contract is entered into, notifies the House of Representatives and the Senate of the intention to enter into such a contract and promptly thereafter publishes notice of such intention in the Federal Register;
    (2) after entering into the contract, the Secretary transmits a report to the House of Representatives and to the Senate containing a copy of the final text of such contract together with–
      (A) the implementing bill, and an explanation of how the implementing bill changes or affects existing law; and
      (B) a statement of the reasons why the contract serves the interests of the United States and why the implementing bill is required or appropriate to implement the contract; and
    (3) the implementing bill is enacted into law.
  (d) Rules of Senate
     Subsections (e) through (h) of this section are enacted by the Congress–
    (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, and as such they are deemed a part of the rules of the Senate but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in the Senate in the case of implementing bills and implementing revenue bills described in subsection (a) of this section, and they supersede other rules only to the extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
    (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of the Senate to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of the Senate) at any time, in the same manner and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of the Senate.
  (e) Introduction and referral in Senate
    (1) On the day on which an implementing bill is transmitted to the Senate under this section, the implementing bill shall be introduced (by request) in the Senate by the majority leader of the Senate, for himself or herself and the minority leader of the Senate, or by Members of the Senate designated by the majority leader and minority leader of the Senate.
    (2) If the Senate is not in session on the day on which such an agreement is submitted, the implementing bill shall be introduced in the Senate, as provided in the \1\N paragraph (1), on the first day thereafter on which the Senate is in session.
    (3) Such bills shall be referred by the presiding officer of the Senate to the appropriate committee, or, in the case of a bill containing provisions within the jurisdiction of two or more committees, jointly to such committees for consideration of those provisions within their respective jurisdictions.
  (f) Consideration of amendments to implementing bill prohibited in Senate
    (1) No amendments to an implementing bill shall be in order in the Senate, and it shall not be in order in the Senate to consider an implementing bill that originated in the House if such bill passed the House containing any amendment to the introduced bill.
    (2) No motion to suspend the application of this subsection shall be in order in the Senate; nor shall it be in order in the Senate for the Presiding Officer to entertain a request to suspend the application of this subsection by unanimous consent.
  (g) Discharge in Senate
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), if the committee or committees of the Senate to which an implementing bill has been referred have not reported it at the close of the 30th day after its introduction, such committee or committees shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of the bill, and it shall be placed on the appropriate calendar.
    (2) A vote on final passage of the bill shall be taken in the Senate on or before the close of the 15th day after the bill is reported by the committee or committees to which it was referred or after such committee or committees have been discharged from further consideration of the bill.
    (3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply in the Senate to an implementing revenue bill. An implementing revenue bill received from the House shall be, subject to subsection (f)(1) of this section, referred to the appropriate committee or committees of the Senate. If such committee or committees have not reported such bill at the close of the 15th day after its receipt by the Senate, such committee or committees shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of such bill and it shall be placed on the calendar. A vote on final passage of such bill shall be taken in the Senate on or before the close of the 15th day after such bill is reported by the committee or committees of the Senate to which it was referred, or after such committee or committees have been discharged from further consideration of such bill.
    (4) For purposes of this subsection, in computing a number of days in the Senate, there shall be excluded any day on which the Senate is not in session.
  (h) Floor consideration in Senate
    (1) A motion in the Senate to proceed to the consideration of an implementing bill shall be privileged and not debatable. An amendment to the motion shall not be in order, nor shall it be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
    (2) Debate in the Senate on an implementing bill, and all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 20 hours. The time shall be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees.
    (3) Debate in the Senate on any debatable motion or appeal in connection with an implementing bill shall be limited to not more than one hour to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the bill, except that in the event the manager of the bill is in favor of any such motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto shall be controlled by the minority leader or his designee. Such leaders, or either of them, may, from time under their control on the passage of an implementing bill, allot additional time to any Senator during the consideration of any debatable motion or appeal.
    (4) A motion in the Senate to further limit debate is not debatable. A motion to recommit an implementing bill is not in order.
