  (a) Authority of Secretary to establish; applicability of section 17 of Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974; chairman; inclusion of representatives of public; public meetings; notice of meeting to Attorney General and Federal Trade Commission; attendance and participation of their representatives
     To achieve the purposes of the international energy program with respect to international allocation of petroleum products and the information system provided in such program, the Secretary may provide for the establishment of such advisory committees as he determines are necessary. In addition to the requirements specified in this section, such advisory committees shall be subject to the provisions of section 17 of the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 [15 U.S.C. 776] (whether or not such Act [15 U.S.C. 761 et seq.] or any of its provisions expire or terminate before June 30, 1985); shall be chaired by a regular full-time Federal employee; and shall include representatives of the public. The meetings of such committees shall be open to the public. The Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission shall have adequate advance notice of any meeting and may have an official representative attend and participate in any such meeting.
  (b) Transcript of meetings
     A verbatim transcript shall be kept of such advisory committee meetings, and shall be deposited with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission. Such transcript shall be made available for public inspection and copying in accordance with section 552 of title 5, except that matter may not be withheld from disclosure under section 552(b) of such title on grounds other than the grounds specified in section 552(b)(1), (b)(3), and so much of (b)(4) as relates to trade secrets, or pursuant to a determination under subsection (c) of this section.
  (c) Suspension of application of certain requirements by President
     The President, after consultation with the Secretary of State, the Federal Trade Commission, the Attorney General, and the Secretary, may suspend the application of–
    (1) sections 10 and 11 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act,
    (2) subsections (b) and (c) of section 17 of the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 [15 U.S.C. 776],
    (3) the requirement under subsection (a) of this section that meetings be open to the public, and
    (4) the second sentence of subsection (b) of this section;
       if the President determines with respect to a particular meeting, (A) that such suspension is essential to the developing or carrying out of the international energy program, (B) that such suspension relates solely to the purpose of international allocation of petroleum products and the information system provided in such program, and (C) that the meeting deals with matters described in section 552(b)(1) of title 5. Such determination by the President shall be in writing, shall set forth a detailed explanation of reasons justifying the granting of such suspension, and shall be published in the Federal Register at a reasonable time prior to the effective date of any such suspension.
