  (a) In general
     Each manufacturer of a covered product to which a rule under section 6294 of this title applies shall provide a label which meets, and is displayed in accordance with, the requirements of such rule. If such manufacturer or any distributor, retailer, or private labeler of such product advertises such product in a catalog from which it may be purchased, such catalog shall contain all information required to be displayed on the label, except as otherwise provided by rule of the Commission. The preceding sentence shall not require that a catalog contain information respecting a covered product if the distribution of such catalog commenced before the effective date of the labeling rule under section 6294 of this title applicable to such product.
  (b) Notification
    (1) Each manufacturer of a covered product to which a rule under section 6294 of this title applies shall notify the Secretary or the Commission–
      (A) not later than 60 days after the date such rule takes effect, of the models in current production (and starting serial numbers of those models) to which such rule applies; and
      (B) prior to commencement of production, of all models subsequently produced (and starting serial numbers of those models) to which such rule applies.
    (2) If requested by the Secretary or Commission, the manufacturer of a covered product to which a rule under section 6294 of this title applies shall provide, within 30 days of the date of the request, the data from which the information included on the label and required by the rule was derived. Data shall be kept on file by the manufacturer for a period specified in the rule.
    (3) When requested–
      (A) by the Secretary for purposes of ascertaining whether a product subject to a standard established in or prescribed under section 6295 of this title is in compliance with that standard, or
      (B) by the Commission for purposes of ascertaining whether the information set out on a label of a product, as required under section 6294 of this title, is accurate,
         each manufacturer of such a product shall supply at his expense a reasonable number of such covered products to any laboratory designated by the Secretary or the Commission, as the case may be. Any reasonable charge levied by the laboratory for such testing shall be borne by the United States, if and to the extent provided in appropriation Acts.
    (4) Each manufacturer of a covered product to which a rule under section 6294 of this title applies shall annually, at a time specified by the Commission, supply to the Commission relevant data respecting energy consumption or water use developed in accordance with the test procedures applicable to such product under section 6293 of this title.
    (5) A rule under section 6293, 6294, or 6295 of this title may require the manufacturer or his agent to permit a representative designated by the Commission or the Secretary to observe any testing required by this part and inspect the results of such testing.
  (c) Deadline
     Each manufacturer shall use labels reflecting the range data required to be disclosed under section 6294(c)(1)(B) of this title after the expiration of 60 days following the date of publication of any revised table of ranges unless the rule under section 6294 of this title provides for a later date. The Commission may not require labels be changed to reflect revised tables of ranges more often than annually.
  (d) Information requirements
    (1) For purposes of carrying out this part, the Secretary may require, under this part or other provision of law administered by the Secretary, each manufacturer of a covered product to submit information or reports to the Secretary with respect to energy efficiency, energy use, or, in the case of showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals, water use of such covered product and the economic impact of any proposed energy conservation standard, as the Secretary determines may be necessary to establish and revise test procedures, labeling rules, and energy conservation standards for such product and to insure compliance with the requirements of this part. In making any determination under this paragraph, the Secretary shall consider existing public sources of information, including nationally recognized certification programs of trade associations.
    (2) The Secretary shall exercise authority under this section in a manner designed to minimize unnecessary burdens on manufacturers of covered products.
    (3) The provisions of section 796(d) of title 15 shall apply with respect to information obtained under this subsection to the same extent and in the same manner as they apply with respect to energy information obtained under section 796 of title 15.
