   For purposes of this part–
  (1) The term ””covered equipment““ means one of the following types of industrial equipment:
    (A) Electric motors and pumps.
    (B) Small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment.
    (C) Large commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment.
    (D) Packaged terminal air-conditioners and packaged terminal heat pumps.
    (E) Warm air furnaces and packaged boilers.
    (F) Storage water heaters, instantaneous water heaters, and unfired hot water storage tanks.
    (G) Any other type of industrial equipment which the Secretary classifies as covered equipment under section 6312(b) of this title.
  (2)    (A) The term ””industrial equipment““ means any article of equipment referred to in subparagraph (B) of a type–
      (i) which in operation consumes, or is designed to consume, energy;
      (ii) which, to any significant extent, is distributed in commerce for industrial or commercial use; and
      (iii) which is not a ””covered product““ as defined in section 6291(a)(2) of this title, other than a component of a covered product with respect to which there is in effect a determination under section 6312(c) of this title;
     without regard to whether such article is in fact distributed in commerce for industrial or commercial use.
    (B) The types of equipment referred to in this subparagraph (in addition to electric motors and pumps, small and large commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment, packaged terminal air-conditioners, packaged terminal heat pumps, warm air furnaces, packaged boilers, storage water heaters, instantaneous water heaters, and unfired hot water storage tanks) are as follows:
      (i) compressors;
      (ii) fans;
      (iii) blowers;
      (iv) refrigeration equipment;
      (v) electric lights;
      (vi) electrolytic equipment;
      (vii) electric arc equipment;
      (viii) steam boilers;
      (ix) ovens;
      (x) kilns;
      (xi) evaporators; and
      (xii) dryers.
  (3) The term ””energy efficiency““ means the ratio of the useful output of services from an article of industrial equipment to the energy use by such article, determined in accordance with test procedures under section 6314 of this title.
  (4) The term ””energy use““ means the quantity of energy directly consumed by an article of industrial equipment at the point of use, determined in accordance with test procedures established under section 6314 of this title.
  (5) The term ””manufacturer““ means any person who manufactures industrial equipment.
  (6) The term ””label““ may include any printed matter determined appropriate by the Secretary.
  (7) The terms ””energy““, ””manufacture““, ””import““, ””importation““, ””consumer product““, ””distribute in commerce““, ””distribution in commerce““, and ””commerce““ have the same meaning as is given such terms in section 6291 of this title.
  (8) The term ””small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment““ means air-cooled, water-cooled, evaporatively-cooled, or water source (not including ground water source) electrically operated, unitary central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps for commercial application which are rated below 135,000 Btu per hour (cooling capacity).
  (9) The term ””large commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment““ means air-cooled, water-cooled, evaporatively-cooled, or water source (not including ground water source) electrically operated, unitary central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps for commercial application which are rated at or above 135,000 Btu per hour and below 240,000 Btu per hour (cooling capacity).
  (10)    (A) The term ””packaged terminal air conditioner““ means a wall sleeve and a separate unencased combination of heating and cooling assemblies specified by the builder and intended for mounting through the wall. It includes a prime source of refrigeration, separable outdoor louvers, forced ventilation, and heating availability by builder“s choice of hot water, steam, or electricity.
    (B) The term ””packaged terminal heat pump““ means a packaged terminal air conditioner that utilizes reverse cycle refrigeration as its prime heat source and should have supplementary heat source available to builders with the choice of hot water, steam, or electric resistant heat.
  (11)    (A) The term ””warm air furnace““ means a self-contained oil- or gas-fired furnace designed to supply heated air through ducts to spaces that require it and includes combination warm air furnace/electric air conditioning units but does not include unit heaters and duct furnaces.
    (B) The term ””packaged boiler““ means a boiler that is shipped complete with heating equipment, mechanical draft equipment, and automatic controls; usually shipped in one or more sections.
  (12)    (A) The term ””storage water heater““ means a water heater that heats and stores water within the appliance at a thermostatically controlled temperature for delivery on demand. Such term does not include units with an input rating of 4000 Btu per hour or more per gallon of stored water.
    (B) The term ””instantaneous water heater““ means a water heater that has an input rating of at least 4000 Btu per hour per gallon of stored water.
    (C) The term ””unfired hot water storage tank““ means a tank used to store water that is heated externally.
  (13)    (A) The term ””electric motor““ means any motor which is a general purpose T-frame, single-speed, foot-mounting, polyphase squirrel-cage induction motor of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, Design A and B, continuous rated, operating on 230/460 volts and constant 60 Hertz line power as defined in NEMA Standards Publication MG1–1987.
    (B) The term ””definite purpose motor““ means any motor designed in standard ratings with standard operating characteristics or standard mechanical construction for use under service conditions other than usual or for use on a particular type of application and which cannot be used in most general purpose applications.
    (C) The term ””special purpose motor““ means any motor, other than a general purpose motor or definite purpose motor, which has special operating characteristics or special mechanical construction, or both, designed for a particular application.
    (D) The term ””open motor““ means a motor having ventilating openings which permit passage of external cooling air over and around the windings of the machine.
    (E) The term ””enclosed motor““ means a motor so enclosed as to prevent the free exchange of air between the inside and outside of the case but not sufficiently enclosed to be termed airtight.
    (F) The term ””small electric motor““ means a NEMA general purpose alternating current single-speed induction motor, built in a two-digit frame number series in accordance with NEMA Standards Publication MG1–1987.
    (G) The term ””efficiency““ when used with respect to an electric motor means the ratio of an electric motor“s useful power output to its total power input, expressed in percentage.
    (H) The term ””nominal full load efficiency““ means the average efficiency of a population of motors of duplicate design as determined in accordance with NEMA Standards Publication MG1–1987.
  (14) The term ””ASHRAE““ means the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers.
  (15) The term ””IES““ means the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
  (16) The term ””NEMA““ means the National Electrical Manufacturers Association.
  (17) The term ””IEEE““ means the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
  (18) The term ””energy conservation standard““ means–
    (A) a performance standard that prescribes a minimum level of energy efficiency or a maximum quantity of energy use for a product; or
    (B) a design requirement for a product.
