  (a) Rules
     The Secretary may prescribe such rules as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out his authority under this part.
  (b) Departmental consultation
     In carrying out the provisions of sections 6322 and 6324 of this title and subsection (a) of section 6323 of this title, the Secretary shall consult with appropriate departments and Federal agencies.
  (c) Annual report
     The Secretary shall, as part of the report required under section 7267 of this title, report to the President and the Congress, and shall furnish copies of such report to the Governor of each State, on the operation of the program under this part. Such report shall include an estimate of the energy conservation achieved, the degree of State participation and achievement, a description of innovative conservation programs undertaken by individual States, and the recommendations of the Secretary, if any, for additional legislation.
  (d) Duty of Federal Trade Commission to prevent unfair or deceptive practices or acts relating to implementation of energy measures
     The Federal Trade Commission shall (1) cooperate with and assist State agencies which have primary responsibilities for the protection of consumers in activities aimed at preventing unfair and deceptive acts or practices affecting commerce which relate to the implementation of measures likely to conserve, or improve efficiency in the use of, energy, including energy conservation measures and renewable-resource energy measures, and (2) undertake its own program, pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.], to prevent unfair or deceptive acts or practices affecting commerce which relate to the implementation of any such measures.
  (e) List of energy measures eligible for financial assistance; designation of types and requirements of energy audits
     Within 90 days after August 14, 1976, the Secretary shall–
    (1) develop, by rule after consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and publish a list of energy conservation measures and renewable-resource energy measures which are eligible (on a national or regional basis) for financial assistance pursuant to section 1701z–8 of title 12 or section 6881 of this title;
    (2) designate, by rule, the types of, and requirements for, energy audits.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), for the purpose of carrying out this part, there are authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $35,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, and $45,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
    (2) For the purposes of carrying out section 6323(f) of this title, there is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1994 and each fiscal year thereafter such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until expended.
  (g) State Energy Advisory Board
    (1)      (A) There is hereby established within the Department of Energy a State Energy Advisory Board (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the ””Board““) which shall consist of at least 18 and not more than 21 members appointed by the Secretary as soon as practicable but no later than September 30, 1991. At least eight of the members of the Board shall be persons who serve as directors of the State agency, or a division of such agency, responsible for developing State energy conservation plans pursuant to section 6322 of this title. At least four members shall be directors of State or local low income weatherization assistance programs. Other members shall be appointed from persons who have experience in energy efficiency or renewable energy programs from the private sector, consumer interest groups, utilities, public utility commissions, educational institutions, financial institutions, local government energy programs, or research institutions. A majority of the members of the Board shall be State employees.
      (B)        (i) Except as provided in clause (ii), the members of the Board shall serve a term of three years.
        (ii) Of the members first appointed to the Board, one-third shall serve a term of one year, one-third shall serve a term of two years, and the remainder shall serve a term of three years, as specified by the Secretary.
    (2) The Board shall–
      (A) make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation and Renewable Energy within the Department of Energy with respect to–
        (i) the energy efficiency goals and objectives of the programs carried out under this part, part E of this subchapter, and under part A of title IV of the Energy Conservation and Production Act [42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.]; and
        (ii) programmatic and administrative policies designed to strengthen and improve the programs referred to in clause (i), including actions that should be considered to encourage non-Federal resources (including private resources) to supplement Federal financial assistance;
      (B) serve as a liaison between the States and such Department on energy efficiency and renewable energy resource programs; and
      (C) encourage transfer of the results of research and development activities carried out by the Federal Government with respect to energy efficiency and renewable energy resource technologies.
    (3) The Secretary shall designate one of the members of the Board to serve as its chairman and one to serve as its vice-chairman. The chairman and vice-chairman shall serve in those offices no longer than two years.
    (4) The Secretary shall provide the Board with such reasonable services and facilities as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.
    (5) The Board shall be nonpartisan.
    (6) The Board may adopt administrative rules and procedures and may elect one of its members secretary of the Board.
    (7) Consistent with Federal regulations, the Secretary shall reimburse members of the Board for expenses (including travel expenses) necessarily incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
    (8) The Board shall meet at least twice a year and shall submit an annual report to the Secretary and the Congress on the activities carried out by the Board in the previous fiscal year, including an accounting of the expenses reimbursed under paragraph (7) with respect to the year for which the report is made and any recommendations it may have for administrative or legislative changes concerning the matters referred to in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (2).
    (9) The Board shall continue until terminated by law.
