  (a) Report to President; identification of critical technologies; time for submission
     The panel shall submit to the President a biennial report on national critical technologies. Each such report shall identify those product technologies and process technologies that the panel considers to be national critical technologies. The number of the such technologies identified in any such report may not exceed 30, but shall include the most economically important emerging civilian technologies during the 10-year period following such report, together with the estimated current and future size of domestic and international markets for products derived from these technologies. The reports shall be submitted not later than October 1 of even-numbered years.
  (b) Technologies considered national critical technologies
     For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, a product or process technology may be considered to be a national critical technology if the panel determines it to be a technology that it is essential for the United States to develop to further the long-term national security or economic prosperity of the United States.
  (c) Contents of report
     Each such report shall include, with respect to each technology identified in the report, the following information:
    (1) The reasons for the panel“s selection of that technology.
    (2) The state of the development of that technology in the United States and in other countries.
    (3) An estimate of the current and anticipated level of research and development effort in the United States, including anticipated milestones for specific accomplishments, by–
      (A) the Federal Government;
      (B) State and local governments;
      (C) private industry; and
      (D) colleges and universities.
  (d) Types of research and development needed; technologies and markets targeted by trading partners
     Each such report shall include–
    (1) an identification of the types of research and development needed to close any significant gaps or deficiencies in the technology base of the United States, as compared with the technology bases of major trading partners; and
    (2) a list of the technologies and markets targeted by major trading partners for development or capture.
  (e) Submission to Congress
     Not later than 30 days after the date on which a report is submitted to the President under this section, the President shall transmit the report, together with any comments that the President considers appropriate, to Congress.
