  (a) Establishment
     There shall be established a federally funded research and development center to be known as the ””Critical Technologies Institute““ (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Institute““).
  (b) Incorporation
     As determined by the chairman of the committee referred to in subsection (c) of this section, the Institute shall be–
    (1) administered as a separate entity by an organization currently managing another federally funded research and development center; or
    (2) incorporated as a nonprofit membership corporation.
  (c) Operating Committee
    (1) The Institute shall have an Operating Committee composed of six members as follows:
      (A) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, who shall chair the committee.
      (B) The Director of the National Institutes of Health.
      (C) The Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology.
      (D) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
      (E) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
      (F) The Under Secretary of Energy having responsibility for science and technology matters.
    (2) The Operating Committee shall meet not less than four times each year.
  (d) Duties
     The duties of the Institute shall include the following:
    (1) The assembly of timely and authoritative information regarding significant developments and trends in technology research and development in the United States and abroad, with particular emphasis on information relating to the technologies identified in the most recent biennial report submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to section 6683(d) of this title.
    (2) Analysis and interpretation of the information referred to in paragraph (1) to determine whether such developments and trends are likely to affect United States technology policies.
    (3) Initiation of studies and analyses (including systems analyses and technology assessments) of alternatives available for ensuring long-term leadership by the United States in the development and application of the technologies referred to in paragraph (1), including appropriate roles for the Federal Government, State governments, private industry, and institutions of higher education in the development and application of such technologies.
    (4) Provision, upon the request of the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, of technical support and assistance–
      (A) to the committees and panels of the President“s Council of Advisers on Science and Technology that provide advice to the Executive branch on technology policy; and
      (B) to the committees and panels of the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology that are responsible for planning and coordinating activities of the Federal Government to advance the development of critical technologies and sustain and strengthen the technology base of the United States.
  (e) Consultation on Institute activities
     In carrying out the duties referred to in subsection (d) of this section, personnel of the Institute shall–
    (1) consult widely with representatives from private industry, institutions of higher education, and nonprofit institutions; and
    (2) to the maximum extent practicable, incorporate information and perspectives derived from such consultations in carrying out such duties.
  (f) Annual reports
     The committee shall submit to the President an annual report on the activities of the committee under this section. Each report shall be in accordance with requirements prescribed by the President.
  (g) Sponsorship
    (1) The Director of the National Science Foundation shall be the sponsor of the Institute.
    (2) The Director of the National Science Foundation, in consultation with the chairman of the committee, shall enter into a sponsoring agreement with respect to the Institute. The sponsoring agreement shall require that the Institute carry out such functions as the chairman of the committee may specify consistent with the duties referred to in subsection (d) of this section. The sponsoring agreement shall be consistent with the general requirements prescribed for such a sponsoring agreement by the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy.
