  (a) Requirement for critical technology strategies
    (1) The President shall develop and revise as needed a multiyear strategy for federally supported research and development for each critical technology designated by the President. In designating critical technologies for the purpose of this section, the President shall begin with the national critical technologies listed in a biennial report on national critical technologies submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to section 6683(d) of this title. A critical technology strategy may cover more than one critical technology.
    (2) The President shall assign responsibilities and develop procedures for conducting executive branch activities to carry out this section.
    (3) During the development of a critical technology strategy, the President shall provide for the following:
      (A) The development of goals and objectives for the appropriate Federal role in the development of the critical technology or technologies that the President expects to be covered by the strategy.
      (B) Close consultation with appropriate representatives of United States industries, members of industry associations, representatives of labor organizations in the United States, members of professional and technical societies in the United States and other persons who are qualified to provide advice and assistance in the development of such critical technology or technologies.
      (C) The development of an organizational structure within the Federal Government that is appropriate for coordinating, managing, and reviewing the Federal Government“s role in the implementation of the strategy, including allocating roles among Federal departments and agencies.
      (D) The development of policies and procedures for synergistic government, industrial, and university participation in the implementation of the strategy.
      (E) The development of Federal budget estimates for research and development regarding the critical technology or technologies covered by the strategy for the first five fiscal years covered by that strategy.
  (b) Report
     Not later than February 15 of each year, beginning in 1993, the President shall submit to Congress an annual report describing the implementation of subsection (a) of this section. The annual report shall include the following:
    (1) For each critical technology designated by the President for the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, a description of the progress made in implementing subsection (a) of this section during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.
    (2) A description of each proposed program, if any, for further implementing subsection (a) of this section with respect to a critical technology through the date for the submission of the next annual report.
    (3) A copy of each strategy, if any, completed or revised pursuant to subsection (a) of this section during the fiscal year covered by the report.
