   As used in this subchapter:
  (1) Omitted
  (2) The term ””building““ means any structure to be constructed which includes provision for a heating or cooling system, or both, or for a hot water system.
  (3) The term ””building code““ means a legal instrument which is in effect in a State or unit of general purpose local government, the provisions of which must be adhered to if a building is to be considered to be in conformance with law and suitable for occupancy and use.
  (4) The term ””commercial building““ means any building other than a residential building, including any building developed for industrial or public purposes.
  (5) The term ””Federal agency““ means any department, agency, corporation, or other entity or instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government, including the United States Postal Service, the Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
  (6) The term ””Federal building““ means any building to be constructed by, or for the use of, any Federal agency which is not legally subject to State or local building codes or similar requirements.
  (7) The term ””Federal financial assistance““ means (A) any form of loan, grant, guarantee, insurance, payment, rebate, subsidy, or any other form of direct or indirect Federal assistance (other than general or special revenue sharing or formula grants made to States) approved by any Federal officer or agency; or (B) any loan made or purchased by any bank, savings and loan association, or similar institution subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, or the National Credit Union Administration.
  (8) The term ””National Institute of Building Sciences““ means the institute established by section 1701j–2 of title 12.
  (9) The term ””residential building““ means any structure which is constructed and developed for residential occupancy.
  (10) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Energy.
  (11) The term ””State““ includes each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory and possession of the United States.
  (12) The term ””unit of general purpose local government““ means any city, county, town, municipality, or other political subdivision of a State (or any combination thereof), which has a building code or similar authority over a particular geographic area.
  (13) The term ””Federal building energy standards““ means energy consumption objectives to be met without specification of the methods, materials, or equipment to be employed in achieving those objectives, but including statements of the requirements, criteria, and evaluation methods to be used, and any necessary commentary.
  (14) The term ””voluntary building energy code““ means a building energy code developed and updated through a consensus process among interested persons, such as that used by the Council of American Building Officials; the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers; or other appropriate organizations.
  (15) The term ””CABO““ means the Council of American Building Officials.
  (16) The term ””ASHRAE““ means the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
