  (a) Consideration and determination respecting residential building energy codes
    (1) Not later than 2 years after October 24, 1992, each State shall certify to the Secretary that it has reviewed the provisions of its residential building code regarding energy efficiency and made a determination as to whether it is appropriate for such State to revise such residential building code provisions to meet or exceed CABO Model Energy Code, 1992.
    (2) The determination referred to in paragraph (1) shall be–
      (A) made after public notice and hearing;
      (B) in writing;
      (C) based upon findings included in such determination and upon the evidence presented at the hearing; and
      (D) available to the public.
    (3) Each State may, to the extent consistent with otherwise applicable State law, revise the provisions of its residential building code regarding energy efficiency to meet or exceed CABO Model Energy Code, 1992, or may decline to make such revisions.
    (4) If a State makes a determination under paragraph (1) that it is not appropriate for such State to revise its residential building code, such State shall submit to the Secretary, in writing, the reasons for such determination, and such statement shall be available to the public.
    (5)      (A) Whenever CABO Model Energy Code, 1992,\1\N (or any successor of such code) is revised, the Secretary shall, not later than 12 months after such revision, determine whether such revision would improve energy efficiency in residential buildings. The Secretary shall publish notice of such determination in the Federal Register.
      (B) If the Secretary makes an affirmative determination under subparagraph (A), each State shall, not later than 2 years after the date of the publication of such determination, certify that it has reviewed the provisions of its residential building code regarding energy efficiency and made a determination as to whether it is appropriate for such State to revise such residential building code provisions to meet or exceed the revised code for which the Secretary made such determination.
      (C) Paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) shall apply to any determination made under subparagraph (B).
  (b) Certification of commercial building energy code updates
    (1) Not later than 2 years after October 24, 1992, each State shall certify to the Secretary that it has reviewed and updated the provisions of its commercial building code regarding energy efficiency. Such certification shall include a demonstration that such State“s code provisions meet or exceed the requirements of ASHRAE Standard 90.1–1989.
    (2)      (A) Whenever the provisions of ASHRAE Standard 90.1–1989 (or any successor standard) regarding energy efficiency in commercial buildings are revised, the Secretary shall, not later than 12 months after the date of such revision, determine whether such revision will improve energy efficiency in commercial buildings. The Secretary shall publish a notice of such determination in the Federal Register.
      (B)        (i) If the Secretary makes an affirmative determination under subparagraph (A), each State shall, not later than 2 years after the date of the publication of such determination, certify that it has reviewed and updated the provisions of its commercial building code regarding energy efficiency in accordance with the revised standard for which such determination was made. Such certification shall include a demonstration that the provisions of such State“s commercial building code regarding energy efficiency meet or exceed such revised standard.
        (ii) If the Secretary makes a determination under subparagraph (A) that such revised standard will not improve energy efficiency in commercial buildings, State commercial building code provisions regarding energy efficiency shall meet or exceed ASHRAE Standard 90.1–1989, or if such standard has been revised, the last revised standard for which the Secretary has made an affirmative determination under subparagraph (A).
  (c) Extensions
     The Secretary shall permit extensions of the deadlines for the certification requirements under subsections (a) and (b) of this section if a State can demonstrate that it has made a good faith effort to comply with such requirements and that it has made significant progress in doing so.
  (d) Technical assistance
     The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to States to implement the requirements of this section, and to improve and implement State residential and commercial building energy efficiency codes or to otherwise promote the design and construction of energy efficient buildings.
  (e) Availability of incentive funding
    (1) The Secretary shall provide incentive funding to States to implement the requirements of this section, and to improve and implement State residential and commercial building energy efficiency codes. In determining whether, and in what amount, to provide incentive funding under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the actions proposed by the State to implement the requirements of this section, to improve and implement residential and commercial building energy efficiency codes, and to promote building energy efficiency through the use of such codes.
    (2) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.
