   As used in this part:
  (1) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Energy.
  (2) The term ””Director““ means the Director of the Community Services Administration.
  (3) The term ””elderly““ means any individual who is 60 years of age or older.
  (4) The term ””Governor““ means the chief executive officer of a State (including the Mayor of the District of Columbia).
  (5) The term ””handicapped person““ means any individual (A) who is a handicapped individual as defined in section 7(7) \1\N of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [29 U.S.C. 706(7)], (B) who is under a disability as defined in section 1614(a)(3)(A) or 233(d)(1) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1382c(a)(3)(A), 423(d)(1)] or in section 102(7) \1\ of the Developmental Disabilities Services and Facilities Construction Act [42 U.S.C. 6001(7)], or (C) who is receiving benefits under chapter 11 or 15 of title 38.
  (6) The terms ””Indian““, ””Indian tribe““, and ””tribal organization““ have the meanings prescribed for such terms by paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively, of section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3002].
  (7) The term ””low-income““ means that income in relation to family size which (A) is at or below 125 percent of the poverty level determined in accordance with criteria established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, except that the Secretary may establish a higher level if the Secretary, after consulting with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Director of the Community Services Administration, determines that such a higher level is necessary to carry out the purposes of this part and is consistent with the eligibility criteria established for the weatherization program under section 2809(a)(12) of this title, (B) is the basis on which cash assistance payments have been paid during the preceding 12-month period under titles IV and XVI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 601 et seq., 1381 et seq.] or applicable State or local law, or (C) if a State elects, is the basis for eligibility for assistance under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8621), provided that such basis is at least 125 percent of the poverty level determined in accordance with criteria established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
  (8) The term ””State““ means each of the States and the District of Columbia.
  (9) The term ””weatherization materials““ means–
    (A) caulking and weatherstripping of doors and windows;
    (B) furnace efficiency modifications, including, but not limited to–
      (i) replacement burners, furnaces, or boilers or any combination thereof;
      (ii) devices for minimizing energy loss through heating system, chimney, or venting devices; and
      (iii) electrical or mechanical furnace ignition systems which replace standing gas pilot lights;
    (C) clock thermostats;
    (D) ceiling, attic, wall, floor, and duct insulation;
    (E) water heater insulation;
    (F) storm windows and doors, multiglazed windows and doors, heat-absorbing or heat-reflective window and door materials;
    (G) cooling efficiency modifications, including, but not limited to, replacement air-conditioners, ventilation equipment, screening, window films, and shading devices;
    (H) solar thermal water heaters;
    (I) wood-heating appliances; and
    (J) such other insulating or energy conserving devices or technologies as the Secretary may determine, after consulting with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Director, of the Community Services Administration.
