  (a) Final report
     Not later than 3 months after the expiration of the demonstration program, the Administrator shall report to Congress on the following topics:
    (1) The types, number, and size of generators of medical waste (including small quantity generators) in the United States, the types and amounts of medical waste generated, and the on-site and off-site methods currently used to handle, store, transport, treat, and dispose of the medical waste, including the extent to which such waste is disposed of in sewer systems.
    (2) The present or potential threat to human health and the environment posed by medical waste or the incineration thereof.
    (3) The present and potential costs (A) to local economies, persons, and the environment from the improper handling, storage, transportation, treatment or disposal of medical waste and (B) to generators, transporters, and treatment, storage, and disposal facilities from regulations establishing requirements for tracking, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of medical waste.
    (4)      (A) The success of the demonstration program established under this subchapter in tracking medical waste,
      (B) changes in incineration and storage practices attributable to the demonstration program, and
      (C) other available and potentially available methods for tracking medical waste and their advantages and disadvantages, including the advantages and disadvantages of extending tracking requirements to (i) rural areas and (ii) small quantity generators.
    (5) Available and potentially available methods for handling, storing, transporting, and disposing of medical waste and their advantages and disadvantages.
    (6) Available and potentially available methods for treating medical waste, including the methods of incineration, sterilization, chemical treatment, and grinding, and their advantages, including their ability to render medical waste noninfectious or less infectious, and unrecognizable and otherwise protect human health and the environment, and disadvantages.
    (7) Factors affecting the effectiveness of the treatment methods identified in subsection (a)(5) of this section, including quality control and quality assurance procedures, maintenance procedures, and operator training.
    (8) Existing State and local controls on the handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of medical waste, including the enforcement and regulatory supervision thereof.
    (9) The appropriateness of using any existing State requirements or the requirements contained in subchapter III of this chapter as nationwide requirements to monitor and control medical waste.
    (10) The appropriateness of the penalties provided in section 6992e of this title for insuring compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, including a review of the level of penalties imposed under this subchapter.
    (11)      (A) The effect of excluding households and small quantity generators from any regulations governing the handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of medical waste, and
      (B) potential guidelines for the handling, storage, treatment, and disposal of medical waste by households and small quantity generators.
    (12) Available and potentially available methods for the reuse or reduction of the volume of medical waste generated.
  (b) Interim reports
     The Administrator shall submit two interim reports to Congress on the topics listed in subsection (a) of this section. The interim reports shall contain the information on the topics available to the Administrator at the time of submission. One interim report shall be due 9 months after November 1, 1988, and one shall be due 12 months after the effective date of regulations under this subchapter.
  (c) Consultation
     In preparing the reports under this section, the Administrator shall consult with appropriate State and local agencies.
