  (a) Functions relating to electric power
    (1) There are transferred to, and vested in, the Secretary all functions of the Secretary of the Interior under section 825s of title 16, and all other functions of the Secretary of the Interior, and officers and components of the Department of the Interior, with respect to–
      (A) the Southeastern Power Administration;
      (B) the Southwestern Power Administration;
      (C) the Alaska Power Administration;
      (D) the Bonneville Power Administration including but not limited to the authority contained in the Bonneville Project Act of 1937 [16 U.S.C. 832 et seq.] and the Federal Columbia River Transmission System Act [16 U.S.C. 838 et seq.];
      (E) the power marketing functions of the Bureau of Reclamation, including the construction, operation, and maintenance of transmission lines and attendant facilities; and
      (F) the transmission and disposition of the electric power and energy generated at Falcon Dam and Amistad Dam, international storage reservoir projects on the Rio Grande, pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1954, as amended by the Act of December 23, 1963.
    (2) The Southeastern Power Administration, the Southwestern Power Administration, the Bonneville Power Administration, and the Alaska Power Administration shall be preserved as separate and distinct organizational entities within the Department. Each such entity shall be headed by an Administrator appointed by the Secretary. The functions transferred to the Secretary in paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(B), (1)(C), and (1)(D) shall be exercised by the Secretary, acting by and through such Administrators. Each such Administrator shall maintain his principal office at a place located in the region served by his respective Federal power marketing entity.
    (3) The functions transferred in paragraphs (1)(E) and (1)(F) of this subsection shall be exercised by the Secretary, acting by and through a separate and distinct Administration within the Department which shall be headed by an Administrator appointed by the Secretary. The Administrator shall establish and shall maintain such regional offices as necessary to facilitate the performance of such functions. Neither the transfer of functions effected by paragraph (1)(E) of this subsection nor any changes in cost allocation or project evaluation standards shall be deemed to authorize the reallocation of joint costs of multipurpose facilities theretofore allocated unless and to the extent that such change is hereafter approved by Congress.
  (b) (c) Repealed. Pub. L. 97–100, title II, § 201, Dec. 23, 1981, 95 Stat. 1407
  (d) Functions of Bureau of Mines
     There are transferred to, and vested in, the Secretary those functions of the Secretary of the Interior, the Department of the Interior, and officers and components of that Department under the Act of May 15, 1910, and other authorities, exercised by the Bureau of Mines, but limited to–
    (1) fuel supply and demand analysis and data gathering;
    (2) research and development relating to increased efficiency of production technology of solid fuel minerals, other than research relating to mine health and safety and research relating to the environmental and leasing consequences of solid fuel mining (which shall remain in the Department of the Interior); and
    (3) coal preparation and analysis.
