  (a) Proposal of rules, regulations, and statements of policy of general applicability by Secretary and Commission
     The Secretary and the Commission are authorized to propose rules, regulations, and statements of policy of general applicability with respect to any function within the jurisdiction of the Commission under section 7172 of this title.
  (b) Consideration and final action on proposals of Secretary
     The Commission shall have exclusive jurisdiction with respect to any proposal made under subsection (a) of this section, and shall consider and take final action on any proposal made by the Secretary under such subsection in an expeditious manner in accordance with such reasonable time limits as may be set by the Secretary for the completion of action by the Commission on any such proposal.
  (c) Utilization of rulemaking procedures for establishment of rates and charges under Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
     Any function described in section 7172 of this title which relates to the establishment of rates and charges under the Federal Power Act [16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.] or the Natural Gas Act [15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.], may be conducted by rulemaking procedures. Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the procedures in such a rulemaking proceeding shall assure full consideration of the issues and an opportunity for interested persons to present their views.
  (d) Submission of written questions by interested persons
     With respect to any rule or regulation promulgated by the Commission to establish rates and charges for the first sale of natural gas by a producer or gatherer to a natural gas pipeline under the Natural Gas Act [15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.], the Commission may afford any interested person a reasonable opportunity to submit written questions with respect to disputed issues of fact to other interested persons participating in the rulemaking proceedings. The Commission may establish a reasonable time for both the submission of questions and responses thereto.
