  (a) In general
     The weapons activities budget of the Department of Energy for any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 shall–
    (1) set forth with respect to each of the activities under the budget (including stockpile stewardship, stockpile management, and program direction) the funding requested to carry out each project or activity that is necessary to meet the requirements of the Nuclear Weapons Stockpile Memorandum; and
    (2) identify specific infrastructure requirements arising from the Nuclear Posture Review, the Nuclear Weapons Stockpile Memorandum, and the programmatic and technical requirements associated with the review and memorandum.
  (b) Required detail
     The Secretary of Energy shall include in the materials that the Secretary submits to Congress in support of the budget for any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 that is submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 the following:
    (1) A long-term program plan, and a near-term program plan, for the certification and stewardship of the nuclear weapons stockpile.
    (2) An assessment of the effects of the plans referred to in paragraph (1) on each nuclear weapons laboratory and each nuclear weapons production plant.
  (c) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) The term ””Nuclear Posture Review““ means the Department of Defense Nuclear Posture Review as contained in the report of the Secretary of Defense to the President and Congress dated February 19, 1995, or in subsequent such reports.
    (2) The term ””nuclear weapons laboratory““ means the following:
      (A) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, California.
      (B) Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico.
      (C) Sandia National Laboratories.
    (3) The term ””nuclear weapons production plant““ means the following:
      (A) The Pantex Plant, Texas.
      (B) The Savannah River Site, South Carolina.
      (C) The Kansas City Plant, Missouri.
      (D) The Y–12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
