  (a) Establishment of program
     The Secretary of Energy shall establish and carry out a program of research for the development of technologies useful for (1) the reduction of environmental hazards and contamination resulting from defense waste, and (2) environmental restoration of inactive defense waste disposal sites.
  (b) Coordination of research activities
    (1) In order to ensure nonduplication of research activities by the Department of Energy regarding technologies referred to in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall coordinate the research activities of the Department of Energy relating to the development of such technologies with the research activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Defense, and other appropriate Federal agencies relating to the same matter.
    (2) To the extent that funds are otherwise available for obligation, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Defense, and other appropriate Federal agencies for the conduct of research for the development of technologies referred to in subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) Report
    (1) The Secretary shall submit to Congress not later than April 1 each year a report on the research activities of the Department of Energy for the development of technologies referred to in subsection (a) of this section. The report shall cover such activities for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted. The Secretary shall include in the report the following:
      (A) A description and assessment of each research program being carried out by or for the Department of Energy and the identification of the individual laboratory, contractor, or institution of higher education responsible for the research program.
      (B) An assessment of the extent to which (i) there are practical applications of the technologies being researched, and (ii) such technologies will likely facilitate compliance by the Department of Energy with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
      (C) An accounting of the funds allocated to each research program and to each laboratory, contractor, or institution of higher education carrying out the research program.
      (D) An assessment of the research projects that have been coordinated with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Defense, and other appropriate Federal agencies pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) The first report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted not later than April 1, 1990.
  (d) Definitions
     As used in this section:
    (1) The term ””defense waste““ means waste, including radioactive waste, resulting primarily from atomic energy defense activities of the Department of Energy.
    (2) The term ””inactive defense waste disposal site““ means any site (including any facility) under the control or jurisdiction of the Secretary of Energy which is used for the disposal of defense waste and is closed to the disposal of additional defense waste, including any site that is subject to decontamination and decommissioning.
