  (a) In general
    (1) Establishment
       The Secretary shall establish the Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowship Program (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the ””Program““) to provide 12 elementary or secondary school mathematics or science teachers with fellowships in each fiscal year in accordance with this subchapter.
    (2) Order of priority
       The Secretary may reduce the number of fellowships awarded under this subchapter for any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for the Program is insufficient to support 12 fellowships. If the number of fellowships awarded under this subchapter is reduced for any fiscal year, then the Secretary shall award fellowships based on the following order of priority:
      (A) Three fellowships in the Department of Energy.
      (B) Two fellowships in the Senate.
      (C) Two fellowships in the House of Representatives.
      (D) One fellowship in each of the following entities:
        (i) The Department of Education.
        (ii) The National Institutes of Health.
        (iii) The National Science Foundation.
        (iv) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        (v) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
    (3) Terms of fellowships
       Each fellowship awarded under this subchapter shall be awarded for a period of ten months that, to the extent practicable, coincide with the academic year.
    (4) Eligibility
       To be eligible for a fellowship under this subchapter, an elementary or secondary school mathematics or science teacher must demonstrate–
      (A) that such teacher would bring unique and valuable contributions to the Program;
      (B) that such teacher is recognized for excellence in mathematics or science education; and
      (C)        (i) a sabbatical leave from teaching will be granted in order to participate in the Program; or
        (ii) the teacher will return to a teaching position comparable to the position held prior to participating in the Program.
  (b) Administration
     The Secretary shall–
    (1) provide for the development and administration of an application and selection process for fellowships under the Program, including a process whereby final selections of fellowship recipients are made in accordance with subsection (c) of this section;
    (2) provide for the publication of information on the Program in appropriate professional publications, including an invitation for applications from teachers listed in the directories of national and State recognition programs;
    (3) select from the pool of applicants 12 elementary and secondary school mathematics teachers and 12 elementary and secondary school science teachers;
    (4) develop a program of orientation for fellowship recipients under this subchapter; and
    (5) not later than August 31 of each year in which fellowships are awarded, prepare and submit an annual report and evaluation of the Program to the appropriate Committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
  (c) Selection
    (1) In general
       The Secretary shall arrange for the 24 semifinalists to travel to Washington, D.C., to participate in interviews in accordance with the selection process described in paragraph (2).
    (2) Final selection
      (A) Not later than May 1 of each year preceding each year in which fellowships are to be awarded, the Secretary shall select and announce the names of the fellowship recipients.
      (B) The Secretary shall provide for the development and administration of a process to select fellowship recipients from the pool of semifinalists as follows:
        (i) The Secretary shall select three fellowship recipients who shall be assigned to the Department of Energy.
        (ii) The Majority Leader of the Senate and the Minority Leader of the Senate, or their designees, shall each select a fellowship recipient who shall be assigned to the Senate.
        (iii) The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, or their designees, shall each select a fellowship recipient who shall be assigned to the House of Representatives.
        (iv) Each of the following individuals, or their designees, shall select one fellowship recipient who shall be assigned within the department, office, agency, or institute such individual administers:
          (I) The Secretary of Education.
          (II) The Director of the National Institutes of Health.
          (III) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
          (IV) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
          (V) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
