   As used in this part–
  (1) The term ””manufacturer““ as used in sections 7521, 7522, 7525, 7541, and 7542 of this title means any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of new motor vehicles, new motor vehicle engines, new nonroad vehicles or new nonroad engines, or importing such vehicles or engines for resale, or who acts for and is under the control of any such person in connection with the distribution of new motor vehicles, new motor vehicle engines, new nonroad vehicles or new nonroad engines, but shall not include any dealer with respect to new motor vehicles, new motor vehicle engines, new nonroad vehicles or new nonroad engines received by him in commerce.
  (2) The term ””motor vehicle““ means any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway.
  (3) Except with respect to vehicles or engines imported or offered for importation, the term ””new motor vehicle““ means a motor vehicle the equitable or legal title to which has never been transferred to an ultimate purchaser; and the term ””new motor vehicle engine““ means an engine in a new motor vehicle or a motor vehicle engine the equitable or legal title to which has never been transferred to the ultimate purchaser; and with respect to imported vehicles or engines, such terms mean a motor vehicle and engine, respectively, manufactured after the effective date of a regulation issued under section 7521 of this title which is applicable to such vehicle or engine (or which would be applicable to such vehicle or engine had it been manufactured for importation into the United States).
  (4) The term ””dealer““ means any person who is engaged in the sale or the distribution of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines to the ultimate purchaser.
  (5) The term ””ultimate purchaser““ means, with respect to any new motor vehicle or new motor vehicle engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new motor vehicle or new engine for purposes other than resale.
  (6) The term ””commerce““ means (A) commerce between any place in any State and any place outside thereof; and (B) commerce wholly within the District of Columbia.
  (7) T4Vehicle curb weight, gross vehicle weight rating, light-duty truck, light-duty vehicle, and loaded vehicle weightK.–The terms ””vehicle curb weight““, ””gross vehicle weight rating““ (GVWR), ””light-duty truck““ (LDT), light-duty vehicle,\1\N and ””loaded vehicle weight““ (LVW) have the meaning provided in regulations promulgated by the Administrator and in effect as of November 15, 1990. The abbreviations in parentheses corresponding to any term referred to in this paragraph shall have the same meaning as the corresponding term.
  (8) T4Test weightK.–The term ””test weight““ and the abbreviation ””tw““ mean the vehicle curb weight added to the gross vehicle weight rating (gvwr) and divided by 2.
  (9) T4Motor vehicle or engine part manufacturerK.–The term ””motor vehicle or engine part manufacturer““ as used in sections 7541 and 7542 of this title means any person engaged in the manufacturing, assembling or rebuilding of any device, system, part, component or element of design which is installed in or on motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines.
  (10) T4Nonroad engineK.–The term ””nonroad engine““ means an internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) that is not used in a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition, or that is not subject to standards promulgated under section 7411 of this title or section 7521 of this title.
  (11) T4Nonroad vehicleK.–The term ””nonroad vehicle““ means a vehicle that is powered by a nonroad engine and that is not a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition.
