   For purposes of this part–
  (1) Terms defined in part A
     The definitions applicable to part A under section 7550 of this title shall also apply for purposes of this part.
  (2) Clean alternative fuel
     The term ””clean alternative fuel““ means any fuel (including methanol, ethanol, or other alcohols (including any mixture thereof containing 85 percent or more by volume of such alcohol with gasoline or other fuels), reformulated gasoline, diesel, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, and hydrogen) or power source (including electricity) used in a clean-fuel vehicle that complies with the standards and requirements applicable to such vehicle under this subchapter when using such fuel or power source. In the case of any flexible fuel vehicle or dual fuel vehicle, the term ””clean alternative fuel““ means only a fuel with respect to which such vehicle was certified as a clean-fuel vehicle meeting the standards applicable to clean-fuel vehicles under section 7583(d)(2) of this title when operating on clean alternative fuel (or any CARB standards which replaces such standards pursuant to section 7583(e) of this title).
  (3) NMOG
     The term nonmethane organic gas (””NMOG““) means the sum of nonoxygenated and oxygenated hydrocarbons contained in a gas sample, including, at a minimum, all oxygenated organic gases containing 5 or fewer carbon atoms (i.e., aldehydes, ketones, alcohols, ethers, etc.), and all known alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, and aromatics containing 12 or fewer carbon atoms. To demonstrate compliance with a NMOG standard, NMOG emissions shall be measured in accordance with the ””California Non-Methane Organic Gas Test Procedures““. In the case of vehicles using fuels other than base gasoline, the level of NMOG emissions shall be adjusted based on the reactivity of the emissions relative to vehicles using base gasoline.
  (4) Base gasoline
     The term ””base gasoline““ means gasoline which meets the following specifications:
       Specifications of Base Gasoline Used
         as Basis for Reactivity Readjustment:
      API gravity
     57.8 
      Sulfur, ppm
     317  
      Color
     Purple
      Benzene, vol. %
     1.35
      Reid vapor pressure
     8.7 
      Drivability
     1195  
      Antiknock index
     87.3 
       Distillation, D–86 G6T1ºKF
      IBP
     92  
      10%
     126  
      50%
     219  
      90%
     327  
      EP
     414  
       Hydrocarbon Type, Vol. % FIA:
      Aromatics
     30.9 
      Olefins
     8.2 
      Saturates
     60.9 
     The Administrator shall modify the definitions of NMOG, base gasoline, and the methods for making reactivity adjustments, to conform to the definitions and method used in California under the Low-Emission Vehicle and Clean Fuel Regulations of the California Air Resources Board, so long as the California definitions are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the definitions in this section.
  (5) Covered fleet
     The term ””covered fleet““ means 10 or more motor vehicles which are owned or operated by a single person. In determining the number of vehicles owned or operated by a single person for purposes of this paragraph, all motor vehicles owned or operated, leased or otherwise controlled by such person, by any person who controls such person, by any person controlled by such person, and by any person under common control with such person shall be treated as owned by such person. The term ””covered fleet““ shall not include motor vehicles held for lease or rental to the general public, motor vehicles held for sale by motor vehicle dealers (including demonstration vehicles), motor vehicles used for motor vehicle manufacturer product evaluations or tests, law enforcement and other emergency vehicles, or nonroad vehicles (including farm and construction vehicles).
  (6) Covered fleet vehicle
     The term ””covered fleet vehicle““ means only a motor vehicle which is–
    (i) in a vehicle class for which standards are applicable under this part; and
    (ii) in a covered fleet which is centrally fueled (or capable of being centrally fueled).
     No vehicle which under normal operations is garaged at a personal residence at night shall be considered to be a vehicle which is capable of being centrally fueled within the meaning of this paragraph.
  (7) Clean-fuel vehicle
     The term ””clean-fuel vehicle““ means a vehicle in a class or category of vehicles which has been certified to meet for any model year the clean-fuel vehicle standards applicable under this part for that model year to clean-fuel vehicles in that class or category.
