  (a) Authority
     The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section referred to as the ””Secretary““) shall assess the risk of earthquake-related damage to properties assisted under programs administered by the Secretary and shall develop seismic safety standards for such properties. This section may not be construed to prohibit the Secretary from deferring to local building codes that meet the requirements of the seismic safety standards developed under this section.
  (b) Standards
     The standards shall be designed to reduce the risk of loss of life to building occupants to the maximum extent feasible and to reduce the risk of shake-related property damage to the maximum extent practicable.
  (c) Consultation
     In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and may utilize the resources under the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program (established under the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 [42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.]) and any other resources as may be required to carry out the activities under this section.
  (d) Reports
    (1) Submission and contents
       The Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress, not less than biennially, containing a statement of the findings of the risk assessment study conducted under this section, including risk assessment of properties located in seismic risk zones and a compilation of the standards developed pursuant to this section. The report shall also include a statement of the activities undertaken by the Secretary to carry out this section and the amount and sources of any funds expended by the Secretary for such purposes. The report shall also include a statement of the activities undertaken by the Secretary to carry out the requirements of Executive Order No. 12699 (January 5, 1990) and the amount and sources of any funds expended by the Secretary for such purposes.
    (2) Initial submission
       The first report required under this subsection shall be submitted not later than the expiration of the 18-month period beginning on November 28, 1990.
