  (a) Specific and other site locations; remedial action; consultations; boundaries; Grand Junction, Colorado site restriction
    (1) As soon as practicable, but no later than one year after November 8, 1978, the Secretary shall designate processing sites at or near the following locations:
       Salt Lake City, Utah
       Green River, Utah
       Mexican Hat, Utah
       Durango, Colorado
       Grand Junction, Colorado
       Rifle, Colorado (two sites)
       Gunnison, Colorado
       Naturita, Colorado
       Maybell, Colorado
       Slick Rock, Colorado (two sites)
       Shiprock, New Mexico
       Ambrosia Lake, New Mexico
       Riverton, Wyoming
       Converse County, Wyoming
       Lakeview, Oregon
       Falls City, Texas
       Tuba City, Arizona
       Monument Valley, Arizona
       Lowman, Idaho
       Cannonsburg, Pennsylvania
       Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary shall complete remedial action at the above listed sites before his authority terminates under this subchapter. The Secretary shall within one year of November 8, 1978, also designate all other processing sites within the United States which he determines requires remedial action to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. In making such designation, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator, the Commission, and the affected States, and in the case of Indian lands, the appropriate Indian tribe and the Secretary of the Interior.
    (2) As part of his designation under this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, shall determine the boundaries of each such site.
    (3) No site or structure with respect to which remedial action is authorized under Public Law 92–314 in Grand Junction, Colorado, may be designated by the Secretary as a processing site under this section.
  (b) Health hazard assessment; priorities for remedial action
     Within one year from November 8, 1978, the Secretary shall assess the potential health hazard to the public from the residual radioactive materials at designated processing sites. Based upon such assessment, the Secretary shall, within such one year period, establish priorities for carrying out remedial action at each such site. In establishing such priorities, the Secretary shall rely primarily on the advice of the Administrator.
  (c) Notification
     Within thirty days after making designations of processing sites and establishing the priorities for such sites under this section, the Secretary shall notify the Governor of each affected State, and, where appropriate, the Indian tribes and the Secretary of the Interior.
  (d) Finality of determinations
     The designations made, and priorities established, by the Secretary under this section shall be final and not be subject to judicial review.
  (e) Certain real property or improved areas
    (1) The designation of processing sites within one year after November 8, 1978, under this section shall include, to the maximum extent practicable, the areas referred to in section 7911(6)(B) of this title.
    (2) Notwithstanding the one year limitation contained in this section, the Secretary may, after such one year period, include any area described in section 7911(6)(B) of this title as part of a processing site designated under this section if he determines such inclusion to be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
    (3) The Secretary shall designate as a processing site within the meaning of section 7911(6) of this title any real property, or improvements thereon, in Edgemont, South Dakota, that–
      (A) is in the vicinity of the Tennessee Valley Authority uranium mill site at Edgemont (but not including such site), and
      (B) is determined by the Secretary to be contaminated with residual radioactive materials.
         In making the designation under this paragraph, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator, the Commission and the State of South Dakota. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the site so designated in the same manner and to the same extent as to the sites designated under subsection (a) of this section except that, in applying such provisions to such site, any reference in this subchapter to November 8, 1978, shall be treated as a reference to January 4, 1983, and in determining the State share under section 7917 of this title of the costs of remedial action, there shall be credited to the State, expenditures made by the State prior to January 4, 1983, which the Secretary determines would have been made by the State or the United States in carrying out the requirements of this subchapter.
