  (a) Energy management training
    (1) Each executive department described under section 101 of title 5, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the General Services Administration, and the United States Postal Service shall establish and maintain a program to ensure that facility energy managers are trained energy managers. Such programs shall be managed–
      (A) by the department or agency representative on the Task Force; or
      (B) if a department or agency is not represented on the Task Force, by the designee of the head of such department or agency.
    (2) Departments and agencies described in paragraph (1) shall encourage appropriate employees to participate in energy manager training courses. Employees may enroll in courses of study in the areas described in section 8262(3) of this title including, but not limited to, courses offered by–
      (A) private or public educational institutions;
      (B) Federal agencies; or
      (C) professional associations.
  (b) Report to Task Force
    (1) Each department and agency described in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall, not later than 60 days following October 24, 1992, report to the Task Force the following information:
      (A) Those individuals employed by such department or agency on October 24, 1992, who qualify as trained energy managers.
      (B) The General Schedule (GS) or grade level at which each of the individuals described in subparagraph (A) is employed.
      (C) The facility or facilities for which such individuals are responsible or otherwise stationed.
    (2) The Secretary shall provide a summary of the reports described in paragraph (1) to the Congress as part of the first report submitted under section 8258 of this title after October 24, 1992.
  (c) Requirements at Federal facilities
    (1) Not later than one year after October 24, 1992, the departments and agencies described under subsection (a)(1) of this section shall upgrade their energy management capabilities by–
      (A) designating facility energy supervisors;
      (B) encouraging facility energy supervisors to become trained energy managers; and
      (C) increasing the overall number of trained energy managers within such department or agency to a sufficient level to ensure effective implementation of this Act.
    (2) Departments and agencies described in subsection (a)(1) of this section may hire trained energy managers to be facility energy supervisors. Trained energy managers, including those who are facility supervisors as well as other trained personnel, shall focus their efforts on improving energy efficiency in the following facilities–
      (A) department or agency facilities identified as most costly to operate or most energy inefficient; or
      (B) other facilities identified by the department or agency head as having significant energy savings potential.
  (d) Annual report to Secretary and Congress
     Each department and agency listed in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall report to the Secretary on the status and implementation of the requirements of this section. The Secretary shall include a summary of each such report in the annual report to Congress as required under section 8258(b) of this title.
