  (a) Coal allocation authority
    (1) If the President–
      (A) declares a severe energy supply interruption, as defined in section 6202(8) of this title, or
      (B) finds, and publishes such finding, that a national or regional fuel supply shortage exists or may exist which the President determines–
        (i) is, or is likely to be, of significant scope and duration, and of an emergency nature;
        (ii) causes, or may cause, major adverse impact on public health, safety, or welfare or on the economy; and
        (iii) results, or is likely to result, from an interruption in the supply of coal or from sabotage, or an act of God;
           the President may, by order, allocate coal (and require the transportation thereof) for the use of any electric powerplant or major fuel-burning installation, in accordance with such terms and conditions as he may prescribe, to insure reliability of electric service or prevent unemployment, or protect public health, safety, or welfare.
    (2) For purposes of this subsection, the term ””coal““ means anthracite and bituminous coal and lignite (but does not mean any fuel derivative thereof).
  (b) Emergency prohibition on use of natural gas or petroleum
     If the President declares a severe energy supply interruption, as defined in section 6202(8) of this title, the President may, by order, prohibit any electric powerplant or major fuel-burning installation from using natural gas or petroleum, or both, as a primary energy source for the duration of such interruption. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any suspension of emission limitations or other requirements of applicable implementation plans, as defined in section 7410(d) \1\N of this title, required by such prohibition shall be issued only in accordance with section 7410(f) of this title.
  (c) Emergency stays
     The President may, by order, stay the application of any provision of this chapter, or any rule or order thereunder, applicable to any new or existing electric powerplant, if the President finds, and publishes such finding, that an emergency exists, due to national, regional, or systemwide shortages of coal or other alternate fuels, or disruption of transportation facilities, which emergency is likely to affect reliability of service of any such electric powerplant.
  (d) Duration of emergency orders
    (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), any order issued by the President under this section shall not be effective for longer than the duration of the interruption or emergency, or 90 days, whichever is less.
    (2) Any such order may be extended by a subsequent order which the President shall transmit to the Congress in accordance with section 6421 of this title. Such order shall be subject to congressional review pursuant to such section.
    (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the effectiveness of any order issued under this section shall not terminate under this subsection during the 15-calendar-day period during which any such subsequent order described in paragraph (2) is subject to congressional review under section 6421 of this title.
    (4) For purposes of this subsection, the provisions of this subsection supersede the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 34 of title 50.
  (e) Delegation of authority prohibited
     The authority of the President to issue any order under this section may not be delegated. This subsection shall not be construed to prevent the President from directing any Federal agency to issue rules or regulations or take such other action, consistent with this section, in the implementation of such order.
  (f) Publication and reports to Congress of orders
     Any order issued under this section shall be published in the Federal Register. To the greatest extent practicable, the President shall, before issuing any order under this section, but in no event later than 5 days after issuing such order, report to the Congress of his intention to issue such order and state his reasons therefor.
