  (a)    (1) From its allotment under section 8623 of this title, the Secretary shall make payments to each State in accordance with section 6503(a) of title 31, for use under this subchapter.
    (2) Each State shall notify the Secretary, not later than 2 months prior to the close of a fiscal year, of the amount (if any) of its allotment for such year that will not be obligated in such year, and, if such State elects to submit a request described in subsection (b)(2) of this section, such State shall submit such request at the same time. The Secretary shall make no payment under paragraph (1) to a State for a fiscal year unless the State has complied with this paragraph with respect to the prior fiscal year.
  (b)    (1) If–
      (A) the Secretary determines that, as of September 1 of any fiscal year, an amount allotted to a State under section 8623 of this title for any fiscal year will not be used by such State during such fiscal year;
      (B) the Secretary–
        (i) notifies the chief executive officer of such State; and
        (ii) publishes a timely notice in the Federal Register;
       that, after the 30-day period beginning on the date of the notice to such chief executive officer, such amount may be reallotted; and
      (C) the State does not request, under paragraph (2), that such amount be held available for such State for the following fiscal year;
         then such amount shall be treated by the Secretary for purposes of this subchapter as an amount appropriated for the following fiscal year to be allotted under section 8623 of this title for such following fiscal year.
    (2)      (A) Any State may request that an amount allotted to such State for a fiscal year be held available for such State for the following fiscal year. Such request shall include a statement of the reasons that the amount allotted to such State for a fiscal year will not be used by such State during such fiscal year and a description of the types of assistance to be provided with the amount held available for the following fiscal year. Any amount so held available for the following fiscal year shall not be taken into account in computing the allotment of or the amount payable to such State for such fiscal year under this subchapter.
      (B) No amount may be held available under this paragraph for a State from a prior fiscal year to the extent such amount exceeds 10 percent of the amount payable to such State for such prior fiscal year and not transferred pursuant to section 8623(f) of this title. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the amount payable to a State but not transferred by the State for a fiscal year shall be determined without regard to any amount held available under this paragraph for such State for such fiscal year from the prior fiscal year.
      (C) The Secretary shall reallot amounts made available under this paragraph for the fiscal year following the fiscal year of the original allotment in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (3) During the 30-day period described in paragraph (1)(B), comments may be submitted to the Secretary. After considering such comments, the Secretary shall notify the chief executive officer of the State of any decision to reallot funds, and shall publish such decision in the Federal Register.
