  (a) Authority of Secretary of Energy with respect to loans for existing projects; disbursements, etc.
    (1) In the case of any existing municipal waste energy project which produces and sells biomass energy, the Secretary of Energy may commit to make, and make, a price support loan in amounts determined under paragraph (3) for the operation of such project. Payments under any such loan shall be disbursed on an annual basis, as determined (in accordance with paragraph (3)) on the basis of the amount of biomass energy produced and sold by that project during the 12-month period involved and the type and cost of fuel displaced by the biomass energy sold.
    (2)      (A) In the case of any support loan under this section for an existing municipal waste energy project–
        (i) disbursements under such loan may not be made for more than 5 consecutive 12-month periods;
        (ii) the amount of the disbursement for the second and any subsequent 12-month period for which disbursements are to be made under the support loan shall be reduced by an amount determined by multiplying the amount calculated under paragraph (3) by a factor determined by dividing the number of 12-month periods for which disbursements are made under the support loan into the number of such periods which have elapsed;
        (iii) commencing at the end of the last of such 12-month periods, the support loan shall be repayable over a period equal to the then remaining useful life of the project (as determined by the Secretary) or 10 years, whichever is shorter; and
        (iv) commencing at the end of such last 12-month period, such loan shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of Energy (taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods to maturity comparable to the average maturities of such loans) plus not to exceed one per centum, as determined by the Secretary of Energy, and adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of one per centum.
    (3) The amount of the loan payment to be disbursed under this subsection for any year with respect to each type of biomass energy produced and sold by an existing municipal waste energy project shall be equal to–
      (A)        (i) the standard support price reduced by the cost of the fuel displaced by the biomass energy sold, or (ii) $2.00, whichever is lower, multiplied by
      (B) the amount of such biomass energy sold (in millions of Btu“s).
  (b) Authority of Secretary of Energy with respect to loans for new projects; disbursements, etc.
    (1) In the case of any new municipal waste energy project which produces and sells biomass energy, the Secretary of Energy may commit to make, and make, a price support loan in amounts determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (2).
    (2) In the case of any loan under this subsection for a new municipal waste energy project–
      (A) disbursements under such loan may not be made for more than 7 consecutive 12-month periods (with reductions as provided in subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii)) of this section;
      (B) such loan shall bear interest at a rate not in excess of the rate prescribed under subsection (a) of this section; and
      (C) the principal of or interest on such loan shall, in accordance with the support loan agreement, be repayable, commencing at the end of the last 12-month period covered by the support loan, over a period not in excess of the period equal to the then remaining useful life of the project (as determined by the Secretary) or 15 years, whichever is shorter.
  (c) Authority of Secretary of Energy with respect to guarantees for new projects; pricing determinations, etc.
    (1) In the case of any new municipal waste energy project which produces and sells biomass energy, the Secretary of Energy may commit to make, and make, a price guarantee for the operation of such project which guarantees that the price the owner or operator will receive for all or part of the production from that project shall not be less than a specified sales price determined as of the date of execution of the guarantee agreement.
    (2)      (A) No price guarantee under this section may be based upon a cost-plus arrangement, or variant thereof, which guarantees a profit to the owner or operator involved.
      (B) The use of a cost-of-service pricing mechanism by a person pursuant to law, or by a regulatory body establishing rates for a regulated person, shall not be deemed to be a cost-plus arrangement, or variant thereof, for purposes of subparagraph (A).
    (3) In the case of any price guarantee under this subsection for a new municipal waste energy project–
      (A) disbursements under such guarantee may not be made for more than 7 consecutive 12-month periods; and
      (B) amounts paid under this subsection may be required to be repaid to the Secretary of Energy under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, including interest at a rate not in excess of the rate prescribed under subsection (a) of this section.
  (d) Definitions; sale price of retained fuel; rules relating to fuel displacement
     For purposes of this section–
    (1) The term ””new municipal waste energy project““ means any municipal waste energy project which–
      (A) is initially placed in service after June 30, 1980; or
      (B) if initially placed in service before June 30, 1980, has an increased capacity by reason of additional construction, and as such is placed in service after such date.
    (2) The term ””existing municipal waste energy project““ means any municipal waste energy project which is not a new municipal waste project.
    (3) The term ””placed in service““ means operated at more than 50 percent of the estimated operational capacity.
    (4)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the term ””standard support price““ means the average price (per million Btu“s) for No. 6 fuel oil imported into the United States on June 30, 1980, as determined, by rule, by the Secretary of Energy not later than 90 days after June 30, 1980.
      (B) In any case in which the fuel displaced is No. 6 fuel oil or any higher grade of petroleum (as determined by the Secretary of Energy), the term ””standard support price““ means 125 per centum of the price determined by rule under subparagraph (A).
      (C) In any case in which biomass energy produced and sold by a project is steam or electricity, the term ””standard support price““ means the price determined by rule under subparagraph (A), subject to such adjustments as the Secretary of Energy may authorize by rule.
    (5) The term ””cost of the fuel displaced““ means the cost of the fuel (per million Btu“s) which the purchaser of biomass energy would have purchased if the biomass energy had not been available for sale to that purchaser.
    (6) Any biomass energy produced by a municipal waste energy project which may be retained for use by the owner or operator of such project shall be considered to be sold at such price as the Secretary of Energy determines.
    (7) Not later than 90 days after June 30, 1980, the Secretary of Energy shall prescribe, by rule, the manner of determining the fuel displaced by the sale of any biomass energy, and the price of the fuel displaced.
