  (a) Commissioner of Social Security
    (1) There shall be in the Administration a Commissioner of Social Security (in this subchapter referred to as the ””Commissioner““) who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) The Commissioner shall be compensated at the rate provided for level I of the Executive Schedule.
    (3) The Commissioner shall be appointed for a term of 6 years, except that the initial term of office for Commissioner shall terminate January 19, 2001. In any case in which a successor does not take office at the end of a Commissioner“s term of office, such Commissioner may continue in office until the entry upon office of such a successor. A Commissioner appointed to a term of office after the commencement of such term may serve under such appointment only for the remainder of such term. An individual serving in the office of Commissioner may be removed from office only pursuant to a finding by the President of neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
    (4) The Commissioner shall be responsible for the exercise of all powers and the discharge of all duties of the Administration, and shall have authority and control over all personnel and activities thereof.
    (5) The Commissioner may prescribe such rules and regulations as the Commissioner determines necessary or appropriate to carry out the functions of the Administration. The regulations prescribed by the Commissioner shall be subject to the rulemaking procedures established under section 553 of title 5.
    (6) The Commissioner may establish, alter, consolidate, or discontinue such organizational units or components within the Administration as the Commissioner considers necessary or appropriate, except that this paragraph shall not apply with respect to any unit, component, or provision provided for by this chapter.
    (7) The Commissioner may assign duties, and delegate, or authorize successive redelegations of, authority to act and to render decisions, to such officers and employees of the Administration as the Commissioner may find necessary. Within the limitations of such delegations, redelegations, or assignments, all official acts and decisions of such officers and employees shall have the same force and effect as though performed or rendered by the Commissioner.
    (8) The Commissioner and the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this subchapter referred to as the ””Secretary““) shall consult, on an ongoing basis, to ensure–
      (A) the coordination of the programs administered by the Commissioner, as described in section 901 of this title, with the programs administered by the Secretary under subchapters XVIII and XIX of this chapter; and
      (B) that adequate information concerning benefits under such subchapters XVIII and XIX of this chapter is available to the public.
  (b) Deputy Commissioner of Social Security
    (1) There shall be in the Administration a Deputy Commissioner of Social Security (in this subchapter referred to as the ””Deputy Commissioner““) who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (2) The Deputy Commissioner shall be appointed for a term of 6 years, except that the initial term of office for the Deputy Commissioner shall terminate January 19, 2001. In any case in which a successor does not take office at the end of a Deputy Commissioner“s term of office, such Deputy Commissioner may continue in office until the entry upon office of such a successor. A Deputy Commissioner appointed to a term of office after the commencement of such term may serve under such appointment only for the remainder of such term.
    (3) The Deputy Commissioner shall be compensated at the rate provided for level II of the Executive Schedule.
    (4) The Deputy Commissioner shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Commissioner shall from time to time assign or delegate. The Deputy Commissioner shall be Acting Commissioner of the Administration during the absence or disability of the Commissioner and, unless the President designates another officer of the Government as Acting Commissioner, in the event of a vacancy in the office of the Commissioner.
  (c) Chief Actuary
    (1) There shall be in the Administration a Chief Actuary, who shall be appointed by, and in direct line of authority to, the Commissioner. The Chief Actuary shall be appointed from individuals who have demonstrated, by their education and experience, superior expertise in the actuarial sciences. The Chief Actuary shall serve as the chief actuarial officer of the Administration, and shall exercise such duties as are appropriate for the office of the Chief Actuary and in accordance with professional standards of actuarial independence. The Chief Actuary may be removed only for cause.
    (2) The Chief Actuary shall be compensated at the highest rate of basic pay for the Senior Executive Service under section 5382(b) of title 5.
  (d) Chief Financial Officer
     There shall be in the Administration a Chief Financial Officer appointed by the Commissioner in accordance with section 901(a)(2) of title 31.
  (e) Inspector General
     There shall be in the Administration an Inspector General appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, in accordance with section 3(a) of the Inspector General Act of 1978.
