  (a) Personnel
    (1) The Commissioner shall appoint such additional officers and employees as the Commissioner considers necessary to carry out the functions of the Administration under this chapter, and attorneys and experts may be appointed without regard to the civil service laws. Except as otherwise provided in the preceding sentence or in any other provision of law, such officers and employees shall be appointed, and their compensation shall be fixed, in accordance with title 5.
    (2) The Commissioner may procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance with the provisions of section 3109 of title 5.
    (3) Notwithstanding any requirements of section 3133 of title 5, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall authorize for the Administration a total number of Senior Executive Service positions which is substantially greater than the number of such positions authorized in the Social Security Administration in the Department of Health and Human Services as of immediately before August 15, 1994, to the extent that the greater number of such authorized positions is specified in the comprehensive work force plan as established and revised by the Commissioner under subsection (b)(2) of this section. The total number of such positions authorized for the Administration shall not at any time be less than the number of such authorized positions as of immediately before such date.
  (b) Budgetary matters
    (1) The Commissioner shall prepare an annual budget for the Administration, which shall be submitted by the President to the Congress without revision, together with the President“s annual budget for the Administration.
    (2)      (A) Appropriations requests for staffing and personnel of the Administration shall be based upon a comprehensive work force plan, which shall be established and revised from time to time by the Commissioner.
      (B) Appropriations for administrative expenses of the Administration are authorized to be provided on a biennial basis.
  (c) Employment restriction
     The total number of positions in the Administration (other than positions established under section 902 of this title) which–
    (1) are held by noncareer appointees (within the meaning of section 3132(a)(7) of title 5) in the Senior Executive Service, or
    (2) have been determined by the President or the Office of Personnel Management to be of a confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character and have been excepted from the competitive service thereby,
       may not exceed at any time the equivalent of 20 full-time positions.
  (d) Seal of office
     The Commissioner shall cause a seal of office to be made for the Administration of such design as the Commissioner shall approve. Judicial notice shall be taken of such seal.
  (e) Data exchanges
    (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including subsections (b), (T3oK), (p), (q), (r), and (u) of section 552a of title 5–
      (A) the Secretary shall disclose to the Commissioner any record or information requested in writing by the Commissioner for the purpose of administering any program administered by the Commissioner, if records or information of such type were disclosed to the Commissioner of Social Security in the Department of Health and Human Services under applicable rules, regulations, and procedures in effect before August 15, 1994; and
      (B) the Commissioner shall disclose to the Secretary or to any State any record or information requested in writing by the Secretary to be so disclosed for the purpose of administering any program administered by the Secretary, if records or information of such type were so disclosed under applicable rules, regulations, and procedures in effect before August 15, 1994.
    (2) The Commissioner and the Secretary shall enter into an agreement under which the Commissioner provides the Secretary data concerning the quality of the services and information provided to beneficiaries of the programs under subchapters XVIII and XIX of this chapter and the administrative services provided by the Social Security Administration in support of such programs. Such agreement shall stipulate the type of data to be provided and the terms and conditions under which the data are to be provided.
    (3) The Commissioner and the Secretary shall periodically review the need for exchanges of information not referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) and shall enter into such agreements as may be necessary and appropriate to provide information to each other or to States in order to meet the programmatic needs of the requesting agencies.
    (4)      (A) Any disclosure from a system of records (as defined in section 552a(a)(5) of title 5) pursuant to this subsection shall be made as a routine use under subsection (b)(3) of section 552a of such title (unless otherwise authorized under such section 552a).
      (B) Any computerized comparison of records, including matching programs, between the Commissioner and the Secretary shall be conducted in accordance with subsections (T3oK), (p), (q), (r), and (u) of section 552a of title 5.
    (5) The Commissioner and the Secretary shall each ensure that timely action is taken to establish any necessary routine uses for disclosures required under paragraph (1) or agreed to pursuant to paragraph (3).
