   For purposes of this subchapter:
  (1) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
  (2) The term ””State““ means a State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
  (3) The term ””financial assistance““ includes assistance provided by grant, agreement, or contract, and payments may be made in installments and in advance or by way of reimbursement with necessary adjustments on account of overpayments or underpayments.
  (4) The term ””family literacy services““ means services and activities that include interactive literacy activities between parents and their children, training for parents on techniques for being the primary teacher of their children and full partners in the education of their children, parent literacy training (including training in English as a second language), and early childhood education.
  (5) The term ””full calendar year““ means all days of the year other than Saturday, Sunday, and a legal public holiday.
  (6) The term ””full-working-day““ means not less than 10 hours per day.
  (7) The term ””Head Start classroom““ means a group of children supervised and taught by two paid staff members (a teacher and a teacher“s aide or two teachers) and, where possible, a volunteer.
  (8) The term ””Head Start family day care““ means Head Start services provided in a private residence other than the residence of the child receiving such services.
  (9) The term ””home-based Head Start program““ means a Head Start program that provides Head Start services in the private residence of the child receiving such services.
  (10) The term ””Indian tribe““ means any tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any Native village described in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(c)) or established pursuant to such Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
  (11) The term ””local educational agency““ has the meaning given such term in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.].
  (12) The term ””migrant Head Start program““ means a Head Start program that serves families who are engaged in agricultural work and who have changed their residence from one geographical location to another in the preceding 2-year period.
  (13) The term ””mobile Head Start program““ means the provision of Head Start services utilizing transportable equipment set up in various community-based locations on a routine, weekly schedule, operating in conjunction with home-based Head Start programs, or as a Head Start classroom.
  (14) The term ””poverty line““ means the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget)–
    (A) adjusted to reflect the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index For \1\N All Urban Consumers, issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, occurring in the 1-year period or other interval immediately preceding the date such adjustment is made; and
    (B) adjusted for family size.
