  (a) Applications
    (1) In order to receive an allotment under section 9872 of this title, each State shall submit an application to the Secretary. Each such application shall be in such form and submitted by such date as the Secretary shall require.
    (2) Each application required under paragraph (1) for an allotment under section 9872 of this title shall contain assurances that the State will meet the requirements of subsection (b) of this section.
  (b) Certifications
     As part of the annual application required by subsection (a) of this section, the chief executive officer of each State shall–
    (1) certify that the State agrees to use the funds allotted to it under section 9872 of this title in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter; and
    (2) certify that the State agrees that Federal funds made available under section 9873 of this title for any period will be so used as to supplement and increase the level of State, local, and other non-Federal funds that would in the absence of such Federal funds be made available for the programs and activities for which funds are provided under that section and will in no event supplant such State, local, and other non-Federal funds.
       The Secretary may not prescribe for a State the manner of compliance with the requirements of this subsection.
  (c) Description; intended use of payments; comments; revision
    (1) The chief executive officer of a State shall, as part of the application required by subsection (a) of this section, also prepare and furnish the Secretary (in accordance with such form as the Secretary shall provide) with a description of the intended use of the payments the State will receive under section 9873 of this title, including information on the programs and activities to be supported. The description shall be made public within the State in such manner as to facilitate comment from any person (including any Federal or other public agency) during development of the description and after its transmittal. The description shall be revised (consistent with this section) until September 30, 1991, as may be necessary to reflect substantial changes in the programs and activities assisted by the State under this subchapter, and any revision shall be subject to the requirements of the preceding sentence.
    (2) The chief executive officer of each State shall include in such a description of–
      (A) the number of children who participated in before and after school child care programs assisted under this subchapter;
      (B) the characteristics of the children so served including age levels, handicapped condition, income level of families in such programs;
      (C) the salary level and benefits paid to employees in such child care programs; and
      (D) the number of clients served in resource and referral systems assisted under this subchapter, and the types of assistance they requested.
  (d) Application to Public Health Service Act
     Except where inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, the provisions of section 1903(b) [42 U.S.C. 300w–2(b)], paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 1906(a) \1\N [42 U.S.C. 300w–5(a)], and sections 1906(b), 1907, 1908, and 1909 [42 U.S.C. 300w–5(b), 300w–6, 300w–7, 300w–8] of the Public Health Service Act shall apply to this subchapter in the same manner as such provisions apply to part A of title XIX of such Act [42 U.S.C. 300w et seq.].
