  (a) Authority; Secretary; programs
     The Secretary may through grants to public and private nonprofit agencies, provide for community-based, local, statewide, and national programs–
    (1) to coordinate existing private and public food assistance resources, whenever such coordination is determined to be inadequate, to better serve low-income populations;
    (2) to assist low-income communities to identify potential sponsors of child nutrition programs and to initiate new programs in underserved or unserved areas; and
    (3) to develop innovative approaches at the State and local level to meet the nutrition needs of low-income people.
  (b) Allotment of funds
    (1) Of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this section, the Secretary shall allot funds for grants under subsection (a) of this section as follows:
      (A) From 60 percent of such amount (but not to exceed $3,600,000), the Secretary shall allot for grants to eligible agencies for statewide programs in each State the amount that bears the same ratio to 60 percent of the amount appropriated for such fiscal year as the low-income and unemployed population of such State bear to the low-income and unemployed populations of all the States.
      (B) From 40 percent of such amount (but not to exceed $2,400,000), the Secretary shall allot for grants on a competitive basis to eligible agencies for local and statewide programs.
    (2) Any amounts appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this section in excess of $6,000,000 shall be allotted as follows:
      (A) The Secretary shall use 40 percent of such excess to make allotments for grants under subsection (a) of this section to eligible agencies for statewide programs in each State in an aggregate amount that bears the same ratio to 40 percent of such excess as the low-income and unemployed populations of such State bears to the low-income and unemployed populations of all States.
      (B) The Secretary shall use 40 percent of such excess to award grants under subsection (a) of this section on a competitive basis to eligible agencies for local and statewide programs.
      (C) The Secretary shall use the remaining 20 percent of such excess to award grants under subsection (a) of this section on a competitive basis to eligible agencies for nationwide programs, including programs benefiting Native Americans and migrant farm workers. In any fiscal year, the Secretary may not make grants under this subparagraph to a particular eligible agency in an aggregate amount exceeding $300,000.
    (3) For purposes of paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), an eligible agency shall demonstrate that the proposed program is statewide in scope and represents a comprehensive and coordinated effort to alleviate hunger within the State.
    (4) From the amounts allocated under paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), the minimum total allotment for each State for each fiscal year shall be–
      (A) $15,000 if the total amount appropriated to carry out this section is not less than $7,000,000 but less than $10,000,000;
      (B) $20,000 if the total amount appropriated to carry out this section is not less than $10,000,000 but less than $15,000,000; or
      (C) $30,000 if the total amount appropriated to carry out this section is not less than $15,000,000.
         For purposes of this paragraph, the term ””State““ does not include Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
    (5) From funds allotted under paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B) in any fiscal year, the Secretary may not make grants under subsection (a) of this section to an eligible agency in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000.
  (c) Report to Congress
     For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report concerning the grants awarded under this section. Such report shall include–
    (1) a list of grantees;
    (2) the amount of funding awarded to each grantee; and
    (3) a summary of the activities performed by grantees with funds awarded under this section and a description of the manner in which such activities meet the objectives described in subsection (a) of this section.
  (d) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 1996 through 1998, to carry out this section.
