   In this chapter:
  (1) T4Chemical weaponK.–The term ””chemical weapon““ means the following, together or separately:
    (A) A toxic chemical and its precursors, except where intended for a purpose not prohibited under this chapter as long as the type and quantity is consistent with such a purpose.
    (B) A munition or device, specifically designed to cause death or other harm through toxic properties of those toxic chemicals specified in subparagraph (A), which would be released as a result of the employment of such munition or device.
    (C) Any equipment specifically designed for use directly in connection with the employment of munitions or devices specified in subparagraph (B).
  (2) T4Chemical weapons convention; conventionK.–The terms ””Chemical Weapons Convention““ and ””Convention““ mean the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, opened for signature on January 13, 1993.
  (3) T4Key component of a binary or multicomponent chemical systemK.–The term ””key component of a binary or multicomponent chemical system““ means the precursor which plays the most important role in determining the toxic properties of the final product and reacts rapidly with other chemicals in the binary or multicomponent system.
  (4) T4National of the united statesK.–The term ””national of the United States““ has the same meaning given such term in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)).
  (5) T4PersonK.–The term ””person““, except as otherwise provided, means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, any State or any political subdivision thereof, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity located in the United States.
  (6) T4Precursor.–
    (A) T4In generalK.–The term ””precursor““ means any chemical reactant which takes part at any stage in the production by whatever method of a toxic chemical. The term includes any key component of a binary or multicomponent chemical system.
    (B) T4List of precursorsK.–Precursors which have been identified for the application of verification measures under Article VI of the Convention are listed in schedules contained in the Annex on Chemicals of the Chemical Weapons Convention.
  (7) T4Purposes not prohibited by this chapterK.–The term ””purposes not prohibited by this chapter““ means the following:
    (A) T4Peaceful purposesK.–Any peaceful purpose related to an industrial, agricultural, research, medical, or pharmaceutical activity or other activity.
    (B) T4Protective purposesK.–Any purpose directly related to protection against toxic chemicals and to protection against chemical weapons.
    (C) T4Unrelated military purposesK.–Any military purpose of the United States that is not connected with the use of a chemical weapon or that is not dependent on the use of the toxic or poisonous properties of the chemical weapon to cause death or other harm.
    (D) T4Law enforcement purposesK.–Any law enforcement purpose, including any domestic riot control purpose and including imposition of capital punishment.
  (8) T4Toxic chemical.–
    (A) T4In generalK.–The term ””toxic chemical““ means any chemical which through its chemical action on life processes can cause death, temporary incapacitation or permanent harm to humans or animals. The term includes all such chemicals, regardless of their origin or of their method of production, and regardless of whether they are produced in facilities, in munitions or elsewhere.
    (B) T4List of toxic chemicalsK.–Toxic chemicals which have been identified for the application of verification measures under Article VI of the Convention are listed in schedules contained in the Annex on Chemicals of the Chemical Weapons Convention.
  (9) T4United statesK.–The term ””United States““ means the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States and includes all places under the jurisdiction or control of the United States, including–
    (A) any of the places within the provisions of paragraph (41) \1\N of section 40102 of title 49, United States Code;
    (B) any civil aircraft of the United States or public aircraft, as such terms are defined in paragraphs (17) and (37),\1\ respectively, of section 40102 of title 49, United States Code; and
    (C) any vessel of the United States, as such term is defined in section 3(b) of the Maritime Drug Enforcement Act, as amended (46 U.S.C., App. sec. 1903(b)).
