  (a) T4DefinitionsK.–In this chapter, the following definitions apply:
    (1) T4AircraftK.–The term ””aircraft““ means a civil, military, or public contrivance invented, used, or designed to navigate, fly, or travel in the air.
    (2) T4Aviation qualityK.–The term ””aviation quality““, with respect to a part of an aircraft or space vehicle, means the quality of having been manufactured, constructed, produced, maintained, repaired, overhauled, rebuilt, reconditioned, or restored in conformity with applicable standards specified by law (including applicable regulations).
    (3) T4Destructive substanceK.–The term ””destructive substance““ means an explosive substance, flammable material, infernal machine, or other chemical, mechanical, or radioactive device or matter of a combustible, contaminative, corrosive, or explosive nature.
    (4) T4In flightK.–The term ””in flight““ means–
      (A) any time from the moment at which all the external doors of an aircraft are closed following embarkation until the moment when any such door is opened for disembarkation; and
      (B) in the case of a forced landing, until competent authorities take over the responsibility for the aircraft and the persons and property on board.
    (5) T4In serviceK.–The term ””in service““ means–
      (A) any time from the beginning of preflight preparation of an aircraft by ground personnel or by the crew for a specific flight until 24 hours after any landing; and
      (B) in any event includes the entire period during which the aircraft is in flight.
    (6) T4Motor vehicleK.–The term ””motor vehicle““ means every description of carriage or other contrivance propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used for commercial purposes on the highways in the transportation of passengers, passengers and property, or property or cargo.
    (7) T4PartK.–The term ””part““ means a frame, assembly, component, appliance, engine, propeller, material, part, spare part, piece, section, or related integral or auxiliary equipment.
    (8) T4Space vehicleK.–The term ””space vehicle““ means a man-made device, either manned or unmanned, designed for operation beyond the Earth“s atmosphere.
    (9) T4StateK.–The term ””State““ means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
    (10) T4Used for commercial purposesK.–The term ””used for commercial purposes““ means the carriage of persons or property for any fare, fee, rate, charge or other consideration, or directly or indirectly in connection with any business, or other undertaking intended for profit.
  (b) T4Terms Defined in Other LawK.–In this chapter, the terms ””aircraft engine““, ””air navigation facility““, ””appliance““, ””civil aircraft““, ””foreign air commerce““, ””interstate air commerce““, ””landing area““, ””overseas air commerce““, ””propeller““, ””spare part““, and ””special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States““ have the meanings given those terms in sections 40102(a) and 46501 of title 49.
