  (a)    (1) With the concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the head of an executive agency may adjust the frequency and due dates of, and consolidate into an annual report to the President, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Congress any statutorily required reports described in paragraph (2). Such a consolidated report shall be submitted to the President, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and to appropriate committees and subcommittees of Congress not later than 150 days after the end of the agency“s fiscal year.
    (2) The following reports may be consolidated into the report referred to in paragraph (1):
      (A) Any report by an agency to Congress, the Office of Management and Budget, or the President under section 1116, this chapter, and chapters 9, 33, 37, 75, and 91.
      (B) The following agency-specific reports:
        (i) The biennial financial management improvement plan by the Secretary of Defense under section 2222 \1\N of title 10.
        (ii) The annual report of the Attorney General under section 522 of title 28.
      (C) Any other statutorily required report pertaining to an agency“s financial or performance management if the head of the agency–
        (i) determines that inclusion of that report will enhance the usefulness of the reported information to decision makers; and
        (ii) consults in advance of inclusion of that report with the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and any other committee of Congress having jurisdiction with respect to the report proposed for inclusion.
  (b) A report under subsection (a) that incorporates the agency“s program performance report under section 1116 shall be referred to as a performance and accountability report.
  (c) A report under subsection (a) that does not incorporate the agency“s program performance report under section 1116 shall contain a summary of the most significant portions of the agency“s program performance report, including the agency“s success in achieving key performance goals for the applicable year.
  (d) A report under subsection (a) shall include a statement prepared by the agency“s inspector general that summarizes what the inspector general considers to be the most serious management and performance challenges facing the agency and briefly assesses the agency“s progress in addressing those challenges. The inspector general shall provide such statement to the agency head at least 30 days before the due date of the report under subsection (a). The agency head may comment on the inspector general“s statement, but may not modify the statement.
  (e) A report under subsection (a) shall include a transmittal letter from the agency head containing, in addition to any other content, an assessment by the agency head of the completeness and reliability of the performance and financial data used in the report. The assessment shall describe any material inadequacies in the completeness and reliability of the data, and the actions the agency can take and is taking to resolve such inadequacies.
