  (a)    (1) There is hereby established in the Treasury a special fund to be known as the ””Debt Collection Improvement Account““ (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Account““).
    (2) The Account shall be maintained and managed by the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall ensure that agency programs are credited with amounts transferred under subsection (b)(1).
  (b)    (1) Not later than 30 days after the end of a fiscal year, an agency may transfer to the Account the amount described in paragraph (3), as adjusted under paragraph (4).
    (2) Agency transfers to the Account may include collections from–
      (A) salary, administrative, and tax refund offsets;
      (B) the Department of Justice;
      (C) private collection agencies;
      (D) sales of delinquent loans; and
      (E) contracts to locate or recover assets.
    (3) The amount referred to in paragraph (1) shall be 5 percent of the amount of delinquent debt collected by an agency in a fiscal year, minus the greater of–
      (A) 5 percent of the amount of delinquent nontax debt collected by the agency in the previous fiscal year, or
      (B) 5 percent of the average annual amount of delinquent nontax debt collected by the agency in the previous 4 fiscal years.
    (4) In consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Office of Management and Budget may adjust the amount described in paragraph (3) for an agency to reflect the level of effort in credit management programs by the agency. As an indicator of the level of effort in credit management, the Office of Management and Budget shall consider the following:
      (A) The number of days between the date a claim or debt became delinquent and the date which an agency referred the debt or claim to the Secretary of the Treasury or obtained an exemption from this referral under section 3711(g)(2) of this title.
      (B) The ratio of delinquent debts or claims to total receivables for a given program, and the change in this ratio over a period of time.
  (c)    (1) The Secretary of the Treasury may make payments from the Account solely to reimburse agencies for qualified expenses. For agencies with franchise funds, such payments may be credited to subaccounts designated for debt collection.
    (2) For purposes of this section, the term ””qualified expenses““ means expenditures for the improvement of credit management, debt collection, and debt recovery activities, including–
      (A) account servicing (including cross-servicing under section 3711(g) of this title),
      (B) automatic data processing equipment acquisitions,
      (C) delinquent debt collection,
      (D) measures to minimize delinquent debt,
      (E) sales of delinquent debt,
      (F) asset disposition, and
      (G) training of personnel involved in credit and debt management.
    (3)      (A) Amounts transferred to the Account shall be available to the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of this section to the extent and in amounts provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
      (B) As soon as practicable after the end of the third fiscal year after which amounts transferred are first available pursuant to this section, and every 3 years thereafter, any uncommitted balance in the Account shall be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
  (d) For direct loans and loan guarantee programs subject to title V of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, amounts credited in accordance with subsection (c) shall be considered administrative costs.
  (e) The Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe such rules, regulations, and procedures as the Secretary considers necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.
