  (a) Subject to the direction and approval of the Director, the Deputy Director for Management shall establish governmentwide financial management policies for executive agencies and shall perform the following financial management functions:
    (1) Perform all functions of the Director, including all functions delegated by the President to the Director, relating to financial management.
    (2) Provide overall direction and leadership to the executive branch on financial management matters by establishing financial management policies and requirements, and by monitoring the establishment and operation of Federal Government financial management systems.
    (3) Review agency budget requests for financial management systems and operations, and advise the Director on the resources required to develop and effectively operate and maintain Federal Government financial management systems and to correct major deficiencies in such systems.
    (4) Review and, where appropriate, recommend to the Director changes to the budget and legislative proposals of agencies to ensure that they are in accordance with financial management plans of the Office of Management and Budget.
    (5) Monitor the financial execution of the budget in relation to actual expenditures, including timely performance reports.
    (6) Oversee, periodically review, and make recommendations to heads of agencies on the administrative structure of agencies with respect to their financial management activities.
    (7) Develop and maintain qualification standards for agency Chief Financial Officers and for agency Deputy Chief Financial Officers appointed under sections 901 and 903, respectively (excluding any officer designated or appointed under section 901(c)).
    (8) Provide advice to agency heads with respect to the selection of agency Chief Financial Officers and Deputy Chief Financial Officers (excluding any officer designated or appointed under section 901(c)).
    (9) Provide advice to agencies regarding the qualifications, recruitment, performance, and retention of other financial management personnel.
    (10) Assess the overall adequacy of the professional qualifications and capabilities of financial management staffs throughout the Government and make recommendations on ways to correct problems which impair the capacity of those staffs.
    (11) Settle differences that arise among agencies regarding the implementation of financial management policies.
    (12) Chair the Chief Financial Officers Council established by section 302 of the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990.
    (13) Communicate with the financial officers of State and local governments, and foster the exchange with those officers of information concerning financial management standards, techniques, and processes.
    (14) Issue such other policies and directives as may be necessary to carry out this section, and perform any other function prescribed by the Director.
  (b) Subject to the direction and approval of the Director, the Deputy Director for Management shall establish general management policies for executive agencies and perform the following general management functions:
    (1) Coordinate and supervise the general management functions of the Office of Management and Budget.
    (2) Perform all functions of the Director, including all functions delegated by the President to the Director, relating to–
      (A) managerial systems, including the systematic measurement of performance;
      (B) procurement policy;
      (C) grant, cooperative agreement, and assistance management;
      (D) information and statistical policy;
      (E) property management;
      (F) human resources management;
      (G) regulatory affairs; and
      (H) other management functions, including organizational studies, long-range planning, program evaluation, productivity improvement, and experimentation and demonstration programs.
    (3) Provide complete, reliable, and timely information to the President, the Congress, and the public regarding the management activities of the executive branch.
    (4) Facilitate actions by the Congress and the executive branch to improve the management of Federal Government operations and to remove impediments to effective administration.
    (5) Chair the Chief Information Officers Council established under section 3603 of title 44.
    (6) Provide leadership in management innovation, through–
      (A) experimentation, testing, and demonstration programs; and
      (B) the adoption of modern management concepts and technologies.
    (7) Work with State and local governments to improve and strengthen intergovernmental relations, and provide assistance to such governments with respect to intergovernmental programs and cooperative arrangements.
    (8) Review and, where appropriate, recommend to the Director changes to the budget and legislative proposals of agencies to ensure that they respond to program evaluations by, and are in accordance with general management plans of, the Office of Management and Budget.
    (9) Provide advice to agencies on the qualification, recruitment, performance, and retention of managerial personnel.
    (10) Perform any other functions prescribed by the Director.
