  (a) T4Authority To Engrave and Print.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–The Secretary of the Treasury shall engrave and print United States currency and bonds of the United States Government and currency and bonds of United States territories and possessions from intaglio plates on plate printing presses the Secretary selects. However, other security documents and checks may be printed by any process the Secretary selects. Engraving and printing shall be carried out within the Department of the Treasury if the Secretary decides the engraving and printing can be carried out as cheaply, perfectly, and safely as outside the Department.
    (2) T4Engraving and printing for other governmentsK.–The Secretary of the Treasury may produce currency, postage stamps, and other security documents for foreign governments if–
      (A) the Secretary of the Treasury determines that such production will not interfere with engraving and printing needs of the United States; and
      (B) the Secretary of State determines that such production would be consistent with the foreign policy of the United States.
    (3) T4Procurement guidelinesK.–Articles, material, and supplies procured for use in the production of currency, postage stamps, and other security documents for foreign governments pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be treated in the same manner as articles, material, and supplies procured for public use within the United States for purposes of title III of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.; commonly referred to as the Buy American Act).
  (b) United States currency has the inscription ””In God We Trust““ in a place the Secretary decides is appropriate. Only the portrait of a deceased individual may appear on United States currency and securities. The name of the individual shall be inscribed below the portrait.
  (c) The Secretary may make a contract for a period of not more than 4 years to manufacture distinctive paper for United States currency and securities. To promote competition among manufacturers of the distinctive paper, the Secretary may split the award for the manufacture of the paper between the 2 bidders with the lowest prices a pound. When the Secretary decides that it is necessary to operate more than one mill to manufacture distinctive paper, the Secretary may–
    (1) employ individuals temporarily at rates of pay equivalent to the rates of pay of regular employees; and
    (2) charge the pay of the temporary employees to the appropriation available for manufacturing distinctive paper.
