  (a) T4Establishment.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–There is hereby established the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the ””Advisory Committee““) to advise the Secretary of the Treasury on the selection of themes and designs for coins.
    (2) T4Oversight of advisory committeeK.–The Advisory Committee shall be subject to the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Secretary““).
  (b) T4Membership.–
    (1) T4AppointmentK.–The Advisory Committee shall consist of 11 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:
      (A) Seven persons appointed by the Secretary–
        (i) one of whom shall be appointed from among individuals who are specially qualified to serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their education, training, or experience as a nationally or internationally recognized curator in the United States of a numismatic collection;
        (ii) one of whom shall be appointed from among individuals who are specially qualified to serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their experience in the medallic arts or sculpture;
        (iii) one of whom shall be appointed from among individuals who are specially qualified to serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their education, training, or experience in American history;
        (iv) one of whom shall be appointed from among individuals who are specially qualified to serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their education, training, or experience in numismatics; and
        (v) three of whom shall be appointed from among individuals who can represent the interests of the general public in the coinage of the United States.
      (B) Four persons appointed by the Secretary on the basis of the recommendations of the following officials who shall make the selection for such recommendation from among citizens who are specially qualified to serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their education, training, or experience:
        (i) One person recommended by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
        (ii) One person recommended by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
        (iii) One person recommended by the majority leader of the Senate.
        (iv) One person recommended by the minority leader of the Senate.
    (2) T4Terms.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Except as provided in subparagraph (B), members of the Advisory Committee shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.
      (B) T4Terms of initial appointeesK.–As designated by the Secretary at the time of appointment, of the members first appointed–
        (i) four of the members appointed under paragraph (1)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 4 years;
        (ii) the four members appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall be appointed for a term of 3 years; and
        (iii) three of the members appointed under paragraph (1)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 2 years.
    (3) T4Preservation of public advisory statusK.–No individual may be appointed to the Advisory Committee while serving as an officer or employee of the Federal Government.
    (4) T4Continuation of serviceK.–Each appointed member may continue to serve for up to 6 months after the expiration of the term of office to which such member was appointed until a successor has been appointed.
    (5) T4Vacancy and removal.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–Any vacancy on the Advisory Committee shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
      (B) T4RemovalK.–Advisory Committee members shall serve at the discretion of the Secretary and may be removed at any time for good cause.
    (6) T4ChairpersonK.–The Chairperson of the Advisory Committee shall be appointed for a term of 1 year by the Secretary from among the members of the Advisory Committee.
    (7) T4Pay and expensesK.–Members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without pay for such service but each member of the Advisory Committee shall be reimbursed from the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund for travel, lodging, meals, and incidental expenses incurred in connection with attendance of such members at meetings of the Advisory Committee in the same amounts and under the same conditions as employees of the United States Mint who engage in official travel, as determined by the Secretary.
    (8) T4Meetings.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The Advisory Committee shall meet at the call of the Secretary, the chairperson, or a majority of the members, but not less frequently than twice annually.
      (B) T4Open meetingsK.–Each meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be open to the public.
      (C) T4Prior notice of meetingsK.–Timely notice of each meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be published in the Federal Register, and timely notice of each meeting shall be made to trade publications and publications of general circulation.
    (9) T4QuorumK.–Seven members of the Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum.
  (c) T4Duties of the Advisory CommitteeK.–The duties of the Advisory Committee are as follows:
    (1) Advising the Secretary of the Treasury on any theme or design proposals relating to circulating coinage, bullion coinage, congressional gold medals and national and other medals produced by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with section 5111 of title 31, United States Code.
    (2) Advising the Secretary of the Treasury with regard to–
      (A) the events, persons, or places that the Advisory Committee recommends be commemorated by the issuance of commemorative coins in each of the 5 calendar years succeeding the year in which a commemorative coin designation is made;
      (B) the mintage level for any commemorative coin recommended under subparagraph (A); and
      (C) the proposed designs for commemorative coins.
  (d) T4ExpensesK.–The expenses of the Advisory Committee that the Secretary of the Treasury determines to be reasonable and appropriate shall be paid by the Secretary from the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
  (e) T4Administrative Support, Technical Services, and AdviceK.–Upon the request of the Advisory Committee, or as necessary for the Advisory Committee to carry out the responsibilities of the Advisory Committee under this section, the Director of the United States Mint shall provide to the Advisory Committee the administrative support, technical services, and advice that the Secretary of the Treasury determines to be reasonable and appropriate.
  (f) T4Consultation AuthorityK.–In carrying out the duties of the Advisory Committee under this section, the Advisory Committee may consult with the Commission of Fine Arts.
  (g) T4Annual Report.–
    (1) T4RequiredK.–Not later than September 30 of each year, the Advisory Committee shall submit a report to the Secretary, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. Should circumstances arise in which the Advisory Committee cannot meet the September 30 deadline in any year, the Secretary shall advise the Chairpersons of the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate of the reasons for such delay and the date on which the submission of the report is anticipated.
    (2) T4ContentsK.–The report required by paragraph (1) shall describe the activities of the Advisory Committee during the preceding year and the reports and recommendations made by the Advisory Committee to the Secretary of the Treasury.
  (h) T4Federal Advisory Committee Act Does Not ApplyK.–Subject to the requirements of subsection (b)(8), the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply with respect to the Committee.
