  (a) T4In GeneralK.–The Secretary shall issue regulations establishing procedures under which eligible units of general local government are required to provide notice to the Secretary of the units“ proposed use of assistance under this chapter. Subject to subsection (c), the assistance provided shall be used, in amounts determined by the unit, for activities under, or for activities that are substantially similar to an activity under, 1 or more of the following programs and the notice shall identify 1 or more of the following programs for each such use:
    (1) The Drug Abuse Resistance Education Program under section 5122 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
    (2) The National Youth Sports Program under section 682 of the Community Services Block Grant Act (Public Law 97–35) as amended by section 205, Public Law 103–252.
    (3) The Gang Resistance Education and Training Program under the Act entitled ””An Act making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991, and for other purposes““, approved November 5, 1990 (Public Law 101–509).
    (4) Programs under title II or IV of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
    (5) Programs under subtitle C of title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12571 et seq.), as amended.
    (6) Programs under the School to Work Opportunities Act (Public Law 103–239).
    (7) Substance Abuse Treatment and Prevention programs authorized under title V or XIX of the Public Health Services Act (43 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).\1\N
    (8) Programs under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.).
    (9) Programs under part A or B of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
    (10) The TRIO programs under part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
    (11) Programs under the National Literacy Act of 1991.
    (12) Programs under the Carl Perkins Vocational Educational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
    (13) The demonstration partnership programs including the community initiative targeted to minority youth under section 203 of the Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–252).
    (14) The runaway and homeless youth program and the transitional living program for homeless youth under title III of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (Public Law 102–586).
    (15) The family support program under subtitle F of title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11481 et seq.).\1\
    (16) After-school activities for school aged children under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.).
    (17) The community-based family resource programs under section 401 of the Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–252).
    (18) The family violence programs under the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act Amendments of 1984.
    (19) Job training programs administered by the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, or the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  (b) T4Notice to AgencyK.–Upon receipt of notice under subsection (a) from an eligible unit of general local government, the Secretary shall notify the head of the appropriate Federal agency for each program listed in subsection (a) that is identified in the notice as a program under which an activity will be conducted with assistance under this chapter. The notification shall state that the unit has elected to use some or all of its assistance under this chapter for activities under that program. The head of a Federal agency that receives such a notification shall ensure that such use is in compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to that program, except that any requirement to provide matching funds shall not apply to that use.
  (c) T4Alternative Uses of Funds.–
    (1) T4Alternative uses authorizedK.–In lieu of, or in addition to, use for an activity described in subsection (a) and notice for that use under subsection (a), an eligible unit of general local government may use assistance under this chapter, and shall provide notice of that use to the Secretary under subsection (a), for any other activity that is consistent with 1 or more of the purposes described in section 6701(a)(2).
    (2) T4Notice deemed to describe consistent useK.–Notice by a unit of general local government that it intends to use assistance under this chapter for an activity other than an activity described in subsection (a) is deemed to describe an activity that is consistent with 1 or more of the purposes described in section 6701(a)(2) unless the Secretary provides to the unit, within 30 days after receipt of that notice of intent from the unit, written notice (including an explanation) that the use is not consistent with those purposes.
  (d) T4General Requirements for QualificationK.–A unit of general local government qualifies for a payment under this chapter for a payment period only after establishing to the satisfaction of the Secretary that–
    (1) the government will establish a trust fund in which the government will deposit all payments received under this chapter;
    (2) the government will use amounts in the trust fund (including interest) during a reasonable period;
    (3) the government will expend the payments so received, in accordance with the laws and procedures that are applicable to the expenditure of revenues of the government;
    (4) if at least 25 percent of the pay of individuals employed by the government in a public employee occupation is paid out of the trust fund, individuals in the occupation any part of whose pay is paid out of the trust fund will receive pay at least equal to the prevailing rate of pay for individuals employed in similar public employee occupations by the government;
    (5) all laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of any contract and subcontract for the repair, renovation, alteration, or construction, including painting and decorating, of any building or work that is financed in whole or in part by a grant under this title, shall be paid wages not less than those determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Act of March 3, 1931 (commonly known as the Davis-Bacon Act); as amended (40 U.S.C. 276a–276a–5). The Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 (15 FR 3176; 64 Stat. 1267) and section 2 of the Act of June 1, 1934 (commonly known as the Copeland Anti-Kickback Act), as amended (40 U.S.C. 276c, 48 Stat. 948);
    (6) the government will use accounting, audit, and fiscal procedures that conform to guidelines which shall be prescribed by the Secretary after consultation with the Comptroller General of the United States. As applicable, amounts received under this chapter shall be audited in compliance with the Single Audit Act of 1984;
    (7) after reasonable notice to the government, the government will make available to the Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, with the right to inspect, records the Secretary reasonably requires to review compliance with this chapter or the Comptroller General of the United States reasonably requires to review compliance and operations under section 6718(b);
    (8) the government will make reports the Secretary reasonably requires, in addition to the annual reports required under section 6719(b); and
    (9) the government will spend the funds only for the purposes set forth in section 6701(a)(2).
  (e) T4Review by GovernorsK.–A unit of general local government shall give the chief executive officer of the State in which the government is located an opportunity for review and comment before establishing compliance with subsection (d).
  (f) T4Sanctions for Noncompliance.–
    (1) T4In generalK.–If the Secretary decides that a unit of general local government has not complied substantially with subsection (d) or regulations prescribed under subsection (d), the Secretary shall notify the government. The notice shall state that if the government does not take corrective action by the 60th day after the date the government receives the notice, the Secretary will withhold additional payments to the government for the current payment period and later payment periods until the Secretary is satisfied that the government–
      (A) has taken the appropriate corrective action; and
      (B) will comply with subsection (d) and regulations prescribed under subsection (d).
    (2) T4NoticeK.–Before giving notice under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give the chief executive officer of the unit of general local government reasonable notice and an opportunity for comment.
    (3) T4Payment conditionsK.–The Secretary may make a payment to a unit of general local government notified under paragraph (1) only if the Secretary is satisfied that the government–
      (A) has taken the appropriate corrective action; and
      (B) will comply with subsection (d) and regulations prescribed under subsection (d).
