  (a) In supporting a project, a joint management fund may be established to administer more effectively amounts received from more than one assistance program or appropriation. A proportional share of the amount required to pay a grantee shall be transferred periodically to the fund from each program or appropriation. When a project is completed, the grantee shall return to the fund an amount not expended.
  (b) An account in a joint management fund is subject to an agreement made by the heads of the executive agencies providing assistance for the project about the responsibilities of each agency. An agreement shall–
    (1) ensure the availability of necessary information to the executive agencies and Congress;
    (2) provide that the agency administering a fund is responsible and accountable by program and appropriation for the amounts provided for the purposes of each account in the fund; and
    (3) include procedures for returning, subject to fiscal year limitations, an excess amount to participating executive agencies under the applicable appropriation. An excess amount of an expired appropriation lapses from the fund.
  (c) For each project financed through an account in a joint management fund, a recipient of an amount from the fund shall keep records prescribed by the head of the executive agency responsible for administering the fund. The records shall include–
    (1) the amount and disposition by the recipient of assistance received under each program and appropriation;
    (2) the total cost of the project for which assistance was given or used;
    (3) that part of the cost of the project provided from other sources; and
    (4) other records that will make it easier to carry out an audit.
  (d) Records of a recipient related to an amount received from a joint management fund shall be made available to the head of the executive agency responsible for administering the fund and the Comptroller General for inspection and audit.
  (e) For a project subject to a joint management fund, one non-Government share may be established conforming to–
    (1) the proportional shares applicable to the assistance programs involved; and
    (2) the proportional shares of an amount transferred to the project account from each of the programs.
