   In this chapter–
  (1) ””Government corporation““ means a mixed-ownership Government corporation and a wholly owned Government corporation.
  (2) ””mixed-ownership Government corporation““ means–
    (A) Amtrak.
    (B) the Central Bank for Cooperatives.
    (C) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
    (D) the Federal Home Loan Banks.
    (E) the Federal Intermediate Credit Banks.
    (F) the Federal Land Banks.
    (G) the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility.
    (H) the Regional Banks for Cooperatives.
    (I) the Rural Telephone Bank when the ownership, control, and operation of the Bank are converted under section 410(a) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950(a)).
    (J) the Financing Corporation.
    (K) the Resolution Trust Corporation.
    (L) the Resolution Funding Corporation.
  (3) ””wholly owned Government corporation““ means–
    (A) the Commodity Credit Corporation.
    (B) the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund.
    (C) the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
    (D) the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.
    (E) Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated.
    (F) the Corporation for National and Community Service.
    (G) the Government National Mortgage Association.
    (H) the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
    (I) the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation.
    (J) the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
    (K) the Rural Telephone Bank until the ownership, control, and operation of the Bank are converted under section 410(a) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950(a)).
    (L) the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
    (M) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development when carrying out duties and powers related to the Federal Housing Administration Fund.
    (N) the Tennessee Valley Authority.
    (O) the Uranium Enrichment Corporation.
    (P) the Panama Canal Commission.
    (Q) the Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation.
