  (a) Situations requiring directed service; time period
     Notwithstanding the provisions of Public Law 96–131, the Commission shall order directed service for a period of not to exceed 90 days over any line of the Rock Island Railroad if the Secretary finds and certifies to the Commission that–
    (1) a lack of rail service exists which cannot be resolved by a grant of interim operating authority over such line and grains or foods are ready to be shipped to market; or
    (2) a lack of rail service exists which cannot be resolved by a grant of interim operating authority over such line and a rail carrier, shipper, State, or other interested party has expressed in writing to the Secretary an interest in purchasing, leasing, or rehabilitating the particular rail line or facility for purposes of providing rail services, and there is a reasonable expectation that such transaction will be consummated.
  (b) Availability of funds
    (1) Not more than $15,000,000 of the funds available for expenditure by the Secretary out of the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Fund established under title V of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 821 et seq.) may be made available by the Secretary to the Commission for purposes of providing directed service under this section and section 916(b) \1\N of this title.
    (2) Funds may be made available for directed service under this section without regard to the findings of the Secretary required under title V of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 [45 U.S.C. 821 et seq.], and section 516 of such Act (45 U.S.C. 836) shall not apply to any directed service provided with such funds.
  (c) Continuation of compensation terms for trackage rights, joint facilities, etc.
     The terms of compensation for all trackage rights, joint facilities, and similar arrangements between other rail carriers and the trustee of the Rock Island Railroad which are in effect on or after March 15, 1980, on portions of the lines of the Rock Island Railroad involved in temporary emergency operations shall be continued in effect during the duration of the temporary emergency operating authority with the carrier providing temporary emergency service substituting for the trustee, except where the Rock Island Railroad has been given more favorable treatment by virtue of its bankruptcy. Such continuation shall not alter or affect the ultimate rights of other rail carriers under trackage rights, joint facilities, or similar arrangements nor prejudice the ultimate determination of any controversy or proceeding concerning rights of the parties with regard to assignment by the trustee of rights in or to the facilities or under the arrangements.
