  (a) Repealed. Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 652
  (b) Rules and regulations
     In order to insure uniform and efficient administration of the provisions of this chapter, the Administrator of General Services, subject to such provisions, by general orders or general regulations–
    (1) shall prescribe policies, principles, methods, procedures, and standards to govern the exercise of the authority and discretion and the performance of the duties and functions of all Government agencies under this chapter; and
    (2) may require or restrict the exercise of any such authority and discretion, or the performance of any such duty or function, to such extent as he deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
  (c) Compliance
     The exercise of any authority or discretion and the performance of any duty or function, conferred or imposed on any Government agency by this chapter, shall be subject to such orders and regulations prescribed by the Administrator of General Services pursuant to subsection (b) of this section. Each Government agency shall carry out such orders and regulations of the Administrator of General Services expeditiously, and shall issue such regulations with respect to its operations and procedures as may be necessary to carry out the policies, principles, methods, procedures, and standards prescribed by the Administrator of General Services. Any Government agency may issue such further regulations not inconsistent with the general orders or regulations of the Administrator of General Services as it deems necessary or desirable to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
  (d) Personnel; supplies, facilities, and services
     The Administrator of General Services may, within the limits of funds which may be made available, employ and fix the compensation of necessary personnel in accordance with the provisions of the civil-service laws and chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, and make expenditures for supplies, facilities, and services necessary for the performance of his functions under this chapter. Without regard to the provisions of the civil-service laws, he may employ certified public accountants, qualified cost accountants, industrial engineers, appraisers, and other experts, and contract with certified public accounting firms and qualified firms of engineers in the discharge of the duties imposed upon him and in furtherance of the objectives and policies of this chapter. The Administrator of General Services shall perform the duties imposed upon him through the personnel and facilities of the contracting agencies and other established Government agencies, to the extent that this does not interfere with the function of the Administrator of General Services to insure uniform and efficient administration of the provisions of this chapter.
  (e) Publication in Federal Register
     All orders and regulations prescribed by the Administrator of General Services or any Government agency under this chapter shall be published in the Federal Register.
