  (a) Laws, authorities, etc., applicable to State-owned railroad with status as rail carrier engaged in interstate and foreign commerce
    (1) After the date of transfer to the State pursuant to section 1203 of this title, the State-owned railroad shall be a rail carrier engaged in interstate and foreign commerce subject to part A of subtitle IV of title 49 and all other Acts applicable to rail carriers subject to that chapter,\1\N including the antitrust laws of the United States, except, so long as it is an instrumentality of the State of Alaska, the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 (45 U.S.C. 231 et seq.), the Railroad Retirement Tax Act (26 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.), the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), the Act of April 22, 1908 (45 U.S.C. 51 et seq.) (popularly referred to as the ””Federal Employers“ Liability Act““), and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act (45 U.S.C. 351 et seq.). Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the State from explicitly invoking by law any exemption from the antitrust laws as may otherwise be available.
    (2) The transfer to the State authorized by section 1203 of this title and the conferral of jurisdiction to the Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection are intended to confer upon the State-owned railroad all business opportunities available to comparable railroads, including contract rate agreements meeting the requirements of section 10713 \2\N of title 49, notwithstanding any participation in such agreements by connecting water carriers.
    (3) All memoranda which sanction noncompliance with Federal railroad safety regulations contained in 49 CFR Parts 209–236, and which are in effect on the date of transfer, shall continue in effect according to their terms as ””waivers of compliance““ (as that term is used in section 20103(d) of title 49).
    (4) The operation of trains by the State-owned railroad shall not be subject to the requirement of any State or local law which specifies the minimum number of crew members which must be employed in connection with the operation of such trains.
    (5) Revenues generated by the State-owned railroad, including any amount appropriated or otherwise made available to the State-owned railroad, shall be retained and managed by the State-owned railroad for railroad and related purposes.
    (6)      (A) After the date of transfer, continued operation of the Alaska Railroad by a public corporation, authority or other agency of the State shall be deemed to be an exercise of an essential governmental function, and revenue derived from such operation shall be deemed to accrue to the State for the purposes of section 115(a)(1) of title 26. Obligations issued by such entity shall also be deemed obligations of the State for the purposes of section 103(a)(1) \2\ of title 26, but not obligations within the meaning of section 103(b)(2) \2\ of title 26.
      (B) Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to affect customary tax treatment of private investment in the equipment or other assets that are used or owned by the State-owned railroad.
  (b) Procedures for issuance of certificate of public convenience and necessity; inventory, valuation, or classification of property; additional laws, authorities, etc., applicable
     As soon as practicable after January 14, 1983, the Interstate Commerce Commission shall promulgate an expedited, modified procedure for providing on the date of transfer a certificate of public convenience and necessity to the State-owned railroad. No inventory, valuation, or classification of property owned or used by the State-owned railroad pursuant to subchapter V \2\ of chapter 107 of title 49 shall be required during the two-year period after the date of transfer. The provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and section 382(b) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6362(b)) shall not apply to actions of the Commission under this subsection.
  (c) Eligibility for participation in Federal railroad assistance programs
     The State-owned railroad shall be eligible to participate in all Federal railroad assistance programs on a basis equal to that of other rail carriers subject to part A of subtitle IV of title 49.
  (d) Laws and regulations applicable to national forest and park lands; limitations on Federal actions
     After the date of transfer to the State pursuant to section 1203 of this title, the portion of the rail properties within the boundaries of the Chugach National Forest and the exclusive-use easement within the boundaries of the Denali National Park and Preserve shall be subject to laws and regulations for the protection of forest and park values. The right to fence the exclusive-use easement within Denali National Park and Preserve shall be subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior, or the Secretary of Agriculture where appropriate, shall not act pursuant to this subsection without consulting with the Governor of the State of Alaska or in such a manner as to unreasonably interfere with continued or expanded operations and support functions authorized under this chapter.
  (e) Preservation and protection of rail properties
     The State-owned railroad may take any necessary or appropriate action, consistent with Federal railroad safety laws, to preserve and protect its rail properties in the interests of safety.
