  (a) Traffic density analysis
     Within 90 days after February 5, 1976, each railroad designated by the Commission as a class I railroad shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a full and complete analysis of the rail system operated by it. Such analysis shall indicate the traffic density for the preceding 5 calendar years on each of the main and branch rail lines of the railroad submitting such analysis. The requirements of the two preceding sentences shall not apply to any railroad subject to reorganization pursuant to the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 [45 U.S.C. 701 et seq.].
  (b) Preliminary standards and designations
     Within 180 days after February 5, 1976, the Secretary shall develop and publish–
    (1) the preliminary standards for classification, in at least 3 categories, of main and branch rail lines according to the degree to which they are essential to the rail transportation system; and
    (2) the preliminary designations with respect to each main and branch rail line, in accordance with such standards for classification.
       The classification of rail lines for purposes of this subsection shall be based on the level of usage measured in gross-ton-miles, the contribution to the economic viability of the railroad which controls such lines, and the contribution of such lines to the probable economic viability of any other railroads which participate in the traffic originating on such lines. In determining ””level of usage““ and ””probable economic viability““, for purposes of such classification, the Secretary shall take into account operational service and other appropriate factors, and he may make reasonable allowance for differences in operation among individual railroads or groups of railroads.
  (c) Public hearings
     Commencing 30 days after the date of publication of the standards and designations required under subsection (b) of this section, the Office shall conduct public hearings, at representative locations, to solicit comments and receive views on the preliminary standards for classification and on the preliminary designations. The Office shall give notice of the date, time, and place of each such hearing, and such notices shall be designed and placed in such manner that all interested parties will have a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
  (d) Report by Office
     Within 120 days after the date of publication of the standards and designations required under subsection (b) of this section, the Office shall submit a report to the Secretary containing its conclusions and recommendations with respect to such preliminary standards for classification and such preliminary designations. This report shall be based on the record which was developed by the Office during the hearings under subsection (c) of this section, as supplemented by such studies as may be undertaken by the Office.
  (e) Final standards and designations
     Within 150 days after the date of receipt of the report required under subsection (d) of this section, the Secretary, with the cooperation and assistance of the Office, shall, after giving due consideration to such report, prepare and publish–
    (1) the final standards for classification of main and branch rail lines; and
    (2) the final designations with respect to each main and branch rail line, in accordance with such standards for classification, including findings to support any material change which is made in a final designation from the corresponding preliminary designation.
