  (a) Issuance
     The Secretary may, following enactment of the legislation referred to in section 827(c) of this title, issue Fund bonds in denominations of $100,000 (or any integral multiple thereof), in such total amounts as may be authorized by the Congress. No Fund bonds–
    (1) shall be issued which mature in less than 8, or more than 15, years from the date of original issuance thereof;
    (2) shall be issued later than the 10th anniversary of the date of publication of the final standards and designations under section 823(e) of this title; and
    (3) shall, except as otherwise provided pursuant to subsections (d)(6) and (g) of this section, be subject to redemption (at the option of the Secretary) (A) at any time prior to the 10th anniversary of the date of original issuance thereof, and (B) at any time thereafter.
  (b) Pledge and lien
     The Secretary, subject to subsection (g) of this section and section 822(g) of this title, shall impose a first pledge of, and a first lien on, all revenues payable to, and assets held in, the Fund, and appropriated for the use of the Secretary pursuant to this subchapter. The Secretary may impose such a pledge of and lien on all other revenues or property of the Fund. The purpose of any such pledge and lien shall be to secure the payment, when due, of the principal of, any redemption premiums on, and any interest on, all Fund anticipation notes and Fund bonds, and for other purposes incidental thereto. Such incidental purposes may include the creation of reserve and other funds which may be similarly pledged and used, to such extent and in such manner as the Secretary deems necessary or desirable. Any pledge made by the Secretary shall be valid and binding from the time it is made. The revenues and assets held in the Fund, and the revenues or property of the Fund which are so pledged and which are subsequently received by the Fund, shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or any further act. The lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind, in tort, contract, or otherwise, against the Secretary or the Fund, without regard to whether such parties have notice thereof. No instrument by which a pledge is created need be recorded or filed to protect such pledge.
  (c) Enhancement of marketability
     The Secretary may enter into binding covenants with the holders of Fund bonds, and with the trustee, if any, under any agreement entered into in connection with the issuance of such bonds with respect to (1) the establishment of reserves, and other funds; (2) stipulations concerning the subsequent issuance of obligations; and (3) such other matters as the Secretary deems necessary or desirable to enhance the marketability of Fund bonds.
  (d) Specific determinations
     Subject to subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may determine, with respect to Fund bonds–
    (1) the form and denominations in which they shall be issued;
    (2) the time when they shall be sold, and in what amounts;
    (3) the time when they shall mature;
    (4) the price thereof at sale;
    (5) the rate of interest thereon;
    (6) whether, and in what manner, they may be redeemed prior to the date when they mature; and
    (7) whether they shall be negotiable or nonnegotiable and whether they shall be bearer or registered instruments, and any indentures or covenants relating thereto.
  (e) Characteristics
     Fund bonds issued by the Secretary under this section shall–
    (1) contain a recital that they are issued under this section, which shall be conclusive evidence as to the validity and regularity of issuance and sale of such Fund bonds;
    (2) be subject to such other terms and conditions as the Secretary may, by the resolution authorizing their issuance, determine;
    (3) be lawful investments and may be accepted as security for all fiduciary, trust, and public funds, the investment or deposit of which shall be under the authority or control of any officer or agency of the United States;
    (4) not be exempted from Federal, State, and local taxation; and
    (5) not be debts or enforceable general obligations of, nor shall payment of the principal thereof or interest thereon be guaranteed by, the United States. Neither the full faith and credit, nor the general taxing power, of the Federal Government shall be pledged to the payment of the principal of, any premium on, or interest on, such Fund bonds.
  (f) No personal liability
     Neither the Secretary, nor any other individual, who executes any Fund anticipation notes or Fund bonds, shall be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance of any such notes or bonds.
  (g) Redemption and transfer
     If, after the 10th anniversary date of the original issuance of the initial series of Fund bonds, the amount in the Fund, exclusive of the value of any redeemable preference shares held by the Fund, exceeds 250 percent of the amount required to satisfy amounts due in the succeeding fiscal year on account of Fund bonds, the Secretary may use such excess to redeem Fund bonds in accordance with their terms or may withdraw all or part of such excess from the Fund and transfer it to the general fund of the United States. When all Fund bonds have been redeemed, all amounts remaining in the Fund or thereafter accruing to it shall be transferred to the general fund of the United States, except to the extent necessary to cover such expenses of the Fund as may be required to carry on and complete any remaining responsibilities.
  (h) Purchase by Secretary
     The Secretary, subject to such agreements with holders of Fund bonds as may then exist, is authorized (out of any funds available) to purchase Fund anticipation notes or Fund bonds. Upon any such purchase, such bonds and notes shall be canceled.
