  (a) General
     If there is a default by the obligor in any payment of principal or interest due under an obligation guaranteed under section 831 of this title, and if such default continues for 30 days, the holder of such obligation or his agent has the right to demand payment by the Secretary of the unpaid interest on, and the unpaid principal of, such obligation consistent with the terms of the guarantee of such obligation. Such payment may be demanded after or before the expiration of such period as may be specified in the guarantee or related agreements, but not later than 90 days from the date of such default. Within such specified period, but not later than 60 days from the date of such demand, the Secretary shall pay to such holder the unpaid interest on, and the unpaid principal of, such obligation, consistent with the terms of the guarantee of such obligation, except that (1) the Secretary shall not be required to make any such payment if he finds, prior to the expiration of such period, that there was no default by the obligor in the payment of interest or principal or that such default has been remedied, and (2) no such holder shall receive payment or be entitled to retain payment in a total amount which, together with an other recovery (including any recovery based upon a security interest in equipment or facilities) exceeds the actual loss of such holder.
  (b) Rights of Secretary
    (1) If the Secretary makes payment to a holder under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall thereupon–
      (A) have all of the rights granted to him by law or agreement with the obligor; and
      (B) be subrogated to all of the rights which were granted such holder, by law, assignment, or security agreement between such holder and the obligor.
    (2) The Secretary may, in his discretion, complete, recondition reconstruct, renovate, repair, maintain, operate, charter, rent, sell, or otherwise dispose of any property or other interests obtained by him pursuant to this section. The terms of any such sale or other disposition shall be as approved by the Secretary.
  (c) Form of payment
     Any amount required to be paid by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be paid in cash.
  (d) Action against obligor
     If there is a default by the obligor in any payment due under an obligation guaranteed under section 831 of this title, the Secretary shall take such action against such obligor or any other person as is, in his discretion, necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the United States. Such an action may be brought in the name of the United States or in the name of the holder of such obligation. Such holder shall make available to the Secretary all records and evidence necessary to prosecute any such suit. The Secretary may, in his discretion, accept a conveyance of property in full or partial satisfaction of any sums owed to him. If the Secretary receives, through the sale of property, an amount greater than his cost and the amount paid to the holder under subsection (a) of this section, he shall pay such excess to the obligor.
