  (a) Abandonment of lines of railroad under section 1170 of title 11
    (1) Upon the occurrence of an event described in section 920(b) of this title, or on April 1, 1980, whichever first occurs, the bankruptcy court may authorize the abandonment of lines of the Milwaukee Railroad pursuant to section 1170 of title 11. Pending the expiration of the time for appeal of an abandonment order or the determination of any such appeal, the bankruptcy court may authorize the termination of service on a line to be abandoned, and the order authorizing such termination may not be stayed. In authorizing any abandonment pursuant to this section, the court shall require the carrier to provide a fair arrangement at least as protective of the interests of employees as that required under section 11347 \1\N of title 49.
    (2) Prior to the date specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the bankruptcy court may hear and consider any request for the abandonment of lines of the Milwaukee Railroad, and may fix the time for the Commission“s report on the request, but it may take final action authorizing such abandonment only in accordance with such paragraph (1).
  (b) Sale or transfer of lines of railroad
    (1) Upon the occurrence of an event described in section 920(b) of this title, or on April 1, 1980, whichever first occurs, the bankruptcy court may authorize the sale or transfer of a line of the Milwaukee Railroad to be used in continued rail operations, subject to the approval of the Commission under paragraph (2) of this subsection. In authorizing any such sale or transfer, the court shall provide a fair arrangement at least as protective of the interest \2\N of employees as that required under section 11347 \1\ of title 49.
    (2) The bankruptcy court may not authorize a sale or transfer pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection unless an appropriate application with respect to such sale or transfer is initiated with the Commission and, within such time as the court may fix, not exceeding 180 days, the Commission, with or without a hearing, as the Commission may determine, and with or without modification or condition, approves such application, or does not act on such application. Any action or order of the Commission approving, modifying, conditioning, or disapproving such application is subject to review by the court only under sections 706(2)(A), 706(2)(B), 706(2)(C), and 706(2)(D) of title 5. An application may be initiated with the Commission prior to the date specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (3) Pending review of an application by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the bankruptcy court may, on a preliminary basis, authorize the sale or transfer of lines of the Milwaukee Railroad to another rail carrier. The court may permit the purchasing carrier to operate interim service as a common carrier over the lines to be purchased, without regard to section 10901 of title 49. In operating such service, the purchasing carrier shall use employees of the Milwaukee Railroad to the extent necessary for the operation of such service. The bankruptcy court may take final action authorizing any such sale or transfer only in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (c) Effect on priorities and timing of employee protection payments
     Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the priorities or timing of payment of employee protection which might have existed in the absence of this chapter.
