   The Commissioner of Patents, upon the requisition of the Secretary of Commerce may cause to be printed:
   1. T4Patents issuedK.–The patents for inventions and designs issued by the Patent Office, including grants, specifications, and drawings, together with copies of them, and of patents already issued, in the number needed for the business of the office.
   2. T4Trade-marks and labelsK.–The certificates of trade-marks and labels registered in the Patent Office, including descriptions and drawings, together with copies of them, and of trade-marks and labels previously registered, in the numbers needed for the business of the office.
   3. T4Official GazetteK.–The Official Gazette of the United States Patent Office in numbers sufficient to supply all who subscribe for it at $5 a year; also for exchange for other scientific publications desirable for the use of the Patent Office; also to supply one copy to each Senator and Representative in Congress; with one hundred additional copies, together with weekly, monthly, and annual indexes. The ””usual number““ of the Official Gazette may not be printed.
   4. T4Report of Commissioner of PatentsK.–The annual report of the Commissioner of Patents, not exceeding five hundred in number, for distribution by him; the annual report of the Commissioner of Patents to Congress, without the list of patents, not exceeding one thousand five hundred in number, for distribution by him; and the annual report of the Commissioner of Patents to Congress, with the list of patents, five hundred copies for sale by him, if needed, and in addition the ””usual number““ only shall be printed.
   5. T4Rules of practice, laws, etcK.–Pamphlet copies of the rules of practice, and of the patent laws, and pamphlet copies of the laws and rules relating to trade-marks and labels, and circulars relating to the business of the office, all in numbers as needed for the business of the office. The ””usual number““ may not be printed.
   6. T4Decisions of Commissioner and courtsK.–Annual volumes of the decisions of the Commissioner of Patents and of the United States courts in patent cases, not exceeding one thousand five hundred in number, of which the usual number shall be printed, and for this purpose a copy of each shall be transmitted to Congress promptly when prepared.
   7. T4IndexesK.–Indexes to patents relating to electricity, and indexes to foreign patents, in the numbers needed for the business of the office. The ””usual number““ may not be printed.
