  (a) The Archivist shall prescribe such regulations as the Archivist deems necessary to effectuate the functions of the Archivist, and the head of each executive agency shall cause to be issued such orders and directives as such agency head deems necessary to carry out such regulations.
  (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the Archivist may delegate any of the functions of the Archivist to such officers and employees of the Administration as the Archivist may designate, and may authorize such successive redelegations of such functions as the Archivist may deem to be necessary or appropriate. A delegation of functions by the Archivist shall not relieve the Archivist of responsibility for the administration of such functions.
  (c) The Archivist may organize the Administration as the Archivist finds necessary or appropriate.
  (d) The Archivist is authorized to establish, maintain, alter, or discontinue such regional, local, or other field offices as the Archivist finds necessary or appropriate to perform the functions of the Archivist or the Administration.
  (e) The Archivist shall cause a seal of office to be made for the Administration of such design as the Archivist shall approve. Judicial notice shall be taken of such seal.
  (f) The Archivist may establish advisory committees to provide advice with respect to any function of the Archivist or the Administration. Members of any such committee shall serve without compensation but shall be entitled to transportation expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence in accordance with section 5703 of title 5.
  (g) The Archivist shall advise and consult with interested Federal agencies with a view to obtaining their advice and assistance in carrying out the purposes of this chapter.
  (h) If authorized by the Archivist, officers and employees of the Administration having investigatory functions are empowered, while engaged in the performance of their duties in conducting investigations, to administer oaths.
