  (a) There is established in the Office of Management and Budget an Office of Electronic Government.
  (b) There shall be at the head of the Office an Administrator who shall be appointed by the President.
  (c) The Administrator shall assist the Director in carrying out–
    (1) all functions under this chapter;
    (2) all of the functions assigned to the Director under title II of the E-Government Act of 2002; and
    (3) other electronic government initiatives, consistent with other statutes.
  (d) The Administrator shall assist the Director and the Deputy Director for Management and work with the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in setting strategic direction for implementing electronic Government, under relevant statutes, including–
    (1) chapter 35;
    (2) subtitle III of title 40, United States Code;
    (3) section 552a of title 5 (commonly referred to as the ””Privacy Act““);
    (4) the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (44 U.S.C. 3504 note); and
    (5) the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002.
  (e) The Administrator shall work with the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs and with other offices within the Office of Management and Budget to oversee implementation of electronic Government under this chapter, chapter 35, the E-Government Act of 2002, and other relevant statutes, in a manner consistent with law, relating to–
    (1) capital planning and investment control for information technology;
    (2) the development of enterprise architectures;
    (3) information security;
    (4) privacy;
    (5) access to, dissemination of, and preservation of Government information;
    (6) accessibility of information technology for persons with disabilities; and
    (7) other areas of electronic Government.
  (f) Subject to requirements of this chapter, the Administrator shall assist the Director by performing electronic Government functions as follows:
    (1) Advise the Director on the resources required to develop and effectively administer electronic Government initiatives.
    (2) Recommend to the Director changes relating to Governmentwide strategies and priorities for electronic Government.
    (3) Provide overall leadership and direction to the executive branch on electronic Government.
    (4) Promote innovative uses of information technology by agencies, particularly initiatives involving multiagency collaboration, through support of pilot projects, research, experimentation, and the use of innovative technologies.
    (5) Oversee the distribution of funds from, and ensure appropriate administration and coordination of, the E-Government Fund established under section 3604.
    (6) Coordinate with the Administrator of General Services regarding programs undertaken by the General Services Administration to promote electronic government and the efficient use of information technologies by agencies.
    (7) Lead the activities of the Chief Information Officers Council established under section 3603 on behalf of the Deputy Director for Management, who shall chair the council.
    (8) Assist the Director in establishing policies which shall set the framework for information technology standards for the Federal Government developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology and promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce under section 11331 of title 40, taking into account, if appropriate, recommendations of the Chief Information Officers Council, experts, and interested parties from the private and nonprofit sectors and State, local, and tribal governments, and maximizing the use of commercial standards as appropriate, including the following:
      (A) Standards and guidelines for interconnectivity and interoperability as described under section 3504.
      (B) Consistent with the process under section 207(d) of the E-Government Act of 2002, standards and guidelines for categorizing Federal Government electronic information to enable efficient use of technologies, such as through the use of extensible markup language.
      (C) Standards and guidelines for Federal Government computer system efficiency and security.
    (9) Sponsor ongoing dialogue that–
      (A) shall be conducted among Federal, State, local, and tribal government leaders on electronic Government in the executive, legislative, and judicial branches, as well as leaders in the private and nonprofit sectors, to encourage collaboration and enhance understanding of best practices and innovative approaches in acquiring, using, and managing information resources;
      (B) is intended to improve the performance of governments in collaborating on the use of information technology to improve the delivery of Government information and services; and
      (C) may include–
        (i) development of innovative models–
          (I) for electronic Government management and Government information technology contracts; and
          (II) that may be developed through focused discussions or using separately sponsored research;
        (ii) identification of opportunities for public-private collaboration in using Internet-based technology to increase the efficiency of Government-to-business transactions;
        (iii) identification of mechanisms for providing incentives to program managers and other Government employees to develop and implement innovative uses of information technologies; and
        (iv) identification of opportunities for public, private, and intergovernmental collaboration in addressing the disparities in access to the Internet and information technology.
    (10) Sponsor activities to engage the general public in the development and implementation of policies and programs, particularly activities aimed at fulfilling the goal of using the most effective citizen-centered strategies and those activities which engage multiple agencies providing similar or related information and services.
    (11) Oversee the work of the General Services Administration and other agencies in developing the integrated Internet-based system under section 204 of the E-Government Act of 2002.
    (12) Coordinate with the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy to ensure effective implementation of electronic procurement initiatives.
    (13) Assist Federal agencies, including the General Services Administration, the Department of Justice, and the United States Access Board in–
      (A) implementing accessibility standards under section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d); and
      (B) ensuring compliance with those standards through the budget review process and other means.
    (14) Oversee the development of enterprise architectures within and across agencies.
    (15) Assist the Director and the Deputy Director for Management in overseeing agency efforts to ensure that electronic Government activities incorporate adequate, risk-based, and cost-effective security compatible with business processes.
    (16) Administer the Office of Electronic Government established under this section.
    (17) Assist the Director in preparing the E-Government report established under section 3606.
  (g) The Director shall ensure that the Office of Management and Budget, including the Office of Electronic Government, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, and other relevant offices, have adequate staff and resources to properly fulfill all functions under the E-Government Act of 2002.
