  (a) There is established in the executive branch a Chief Information Officers Council.
  (b) The members of the Council shall be as follows:
    (1) The Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall act as chairperson of the Council.
    (2) The Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government.
    (3) The Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs.
    (4) The chief information officer of each agency described under section 901(b) of title 31.
    (5) The chief information officer of the Central Intelligence Agency.
    (6) The chief information officer of the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force, if chief information officers have been designated for such departments under section 3506(a)(2)(B).
    (7) Any other officer or employee of the United States designated by the chairperson.
  (c)    (1) The Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government shall lead the activities of the Council on behalf of the Deputy Director for Management.
    (2)      (A) The Vice Chairman of the Council shall be selected by the Council from among its members.
      (B) The Vice Chairman shall serve a 1-year term, and may serve multiple terms.
    (3) The Administrator of General Services shall provide administrative and other support for the Council.
  (d) The Council is designated the principal interagency forum for improving agency practices related to the design, acquisition, development, modernization, use, operation, sharing, and performance of Federal Government information resources.
  (e) In performing its duties, the Council shall consult regularly with representatives of State, local, and tribal governments.
  (f) The Council shall perform functions that include the following:
    (1) Develop recommendations for the Director on Government information resources management policies and requirements.
    (2) Share experiences, ideas, best practices, and innovative approaches related to information resources management.
    (3) Assist the Administrator in the identification, development, and coordination of multiagency projects and other innovative initiatives to improve Government performance through the use of information technology.
    (4) Promote the development and use of common performance measures for agency information resources management under this chapter and title II of the E-Government Act of 2002.
    (5) Work as appropriate with the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Administrator to develop recommendations on information technology standards developed under section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g–3) and promulgated under section 11331 of title 40, and maximize the use of commercial standards as appropriate, including the following:
      (A) Standards and guidelines for interconnectivity and interoperability as described under section 3504.
      (B) Consistent with the process under section 207(d) of the E-Government Act of 2002, standards and guidelines for categorizing Federal Government electronic information to enable efficient use of technologies, such as through the use of extensible markup language.
      (C) Standards and guidelines for Federal Government computer system efficiency and security.
    (6) Work with the Office of Personnel Management to assess and address the hiring, training, classification, and professional development needs of the Government related to information resources management.
    (7) Work with the Archivist of the United States to assess how the Federal Records Act can be addressed effectively by Federal information resources management activities.
