  (a) Establishment
     There is established in the executive branch a Chief Acquisition Officers Council.
  (b) Membership
     The members of the Council shall be as follows:
    (1) The Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall act as Chairman of the Council.
    (2) The Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy.
    (3) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
    (4) The chief acquisition officer of each executive agency that is required to have a chief acquisition officer under section 414 of this title and the senior procurement executive of each military department.
    (5) Any other senior agency officer of each executive agency, appointed by the head of the agency in consultation with the Chairman, who can effectively assist the Council in performing the functions set forth in subsection (e) of this section and supporting the associated range of acquisition activities.
  (c) Leadership; support
    (1) The Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy shall lead the activities of the Council on behalf of the Deputy Director for Management.
    (2)      (A) The Vice Chairman of the Council shall be selected by the Council from among its members.
      (B) The Vice Chairman shall serve a 1-year term, and may serve multiple terms.
    (3) The Administrator of General Services shall provide administrative and other support for the Council.
  (d) Principal forum
     The Council is designated the principal interagency forum for monitoring and improving the Federal acquisition system.
  (e) Functions
     The Council shall perform functions that include the following:
    (1) Develop recommendations for the Director of the Office of Management and Budget on Federal acquisition policies and requirements.
    (2) Share experiences, ideas, best practices, and innovative approaches related to Federal acquisition.
    (3) Assist the Administrator in the identification, development, and coordination of multiagency projects and other innovative initiatives to improve Federal acquisition.
    (4) Promote effective business practices that ensure the timely delivery of best value products to the Federal Government and achieve appropriate public policy objectives.
    (5) Further integrity, fairness, competition, openness, and efficiency in the Federal acquisition system.
    (6) Work with the Office of Personnel Management to assess and address the hiring, training, and professional development needs of the Federal Government related to acquisition.
    (7) Work with the Administrator and the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council to promote the business practices referred to in paragraph (4) and other results of the functions carried out under this subsection.
