  (a) Establishment
     There is established a Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ””Council““) to assist in the direction and coordination of Government-wide procurement policy and Government-wide procurement regulatory activities in the Federal Government.
  (b) Membership
    (1) The Council shall consist of the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy and–
      (A) the Secretary of Defense,
      (B) the Administrator of National Aeronautics and Space; and
      (C) the Administrator of General Services.
    (2) Notwithstanding section 121(d)(1) and (2) of title 40, the officials specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) may designate to serve on and attend meetings of the Council in place of that official (A) the official assigned by statute with the responsibility for acquisition policy in each of their respective agencies or, in the case of the Secretary of Defense, an official at an organizational level not lower than an Assistant Secretary of Defense within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics; or (B) if no official of such agency is assigned by statute with the responsibility for acquisition policy for that agency, the official designated pursuant to section 414(3) \1\N of this title. No other official or employee may be designated to serve on the Council.
  (c) Functions
    (1) Subject to the provisions of section 405 of this title, the General Services Administration, the Department of Defense, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, pursuant to their respective authorities under title III of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 251, et seq.), chapters 4 and 137 of title 10, and the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (42 U.S.C. 2451, et seq.), shall jointly issue and maintain in accordance with subsection (f) of this section a single Government-wide procurement regulation, to be known as the ””Federal Acquisition Regulation““.
    (2) Any other regulations relating to procurement issued by an executive agency shall be limited to (A) regulations essential to implement Government-wide policies and procedures within the agency, and (B) additional policies and procedures required to satisfy the specific and unique needs of the agency.
    (3) The Administrator, in consultation with the Council, shall ensure that procurement regulations promulgated by executive agencies are consistent with the Federal Acquisition Regulation and in accordance with any policies issued pursuant to section 405(a) of this title.
    (4)      (A) Under procedures established by the Administrator, a person may request the Administrator to review any regulation relating to procurement on the basis that such regulation is inconsistent with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
      (B) Unless the request is frivolous or does not, on its face, state a valid basis for such review, the Administrator shall complete such a review not later than 60 days after receiving the request. The time for completion of the review may be extended if the Administrator determines that an additional period of review is required. The Administrator shall advise the requester of the reasons for the extension and the date by which the review will be completed.
    (5) If the Administrator determines that a regulation relating to procurement is inconsistent with the Federal Acquisition Regulation or that the regulation should otherwise be revised to remove an inconsistency with any policies issued under section 405(a) of this title, the Administrator shall rescind or deny the promulgation of the regulation or take such other action authorized under section 405 of this title as may be necessary to remove the inconsistency. If the Administrator determines that such a regulation, although not inconsistent with the Federal Acquisition Regulation or such policies, should be revised to improve compliance with such Regulation or policies, the Administrator shall take such action authorized under section 405 of this title as may be necessary and appropriate.
    (6) The decisions of the Administrator shall be in writing and made publicly available. The Administrator shall provide a listing of such decisions in the annual report to Congress required by section 407 \1\ of this title.
  (d) Additional responsibilities of membership
     Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the head of the agency concerned, each official who represents an agency on the Council pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall–
    (1) approve or disapprove all regulations that are, after 60 days after November 17, 1988, proposed for public comment, promulgated in final form, or otherwise made effective by such agency relating to procurement before such regulation may be promulgated in final form, or otherwise made effective, except that such official may grant an interim approval, without review, for not more than 60 days for a procurement regulation in urgent and compelling circumstances;
    (2) carry out the responsibilities of such agency set forth in chapter 35 of title 44 for each information collection request (as that term is defined in section 3502(11) \1\ of title 44) that relates to procurement rules or regulations; and
    (3) eliminate or reduce (A) any redundant or unnecessary levels of review and approval, in the procurement system of such agency, and (B) redundant or unnecessary procurement regulations which are unique to that agency.
       The authority to review and approve or disapprove regulations under paragraph (1) of this subsection may not be delegated to any person outside the office of the official who represents the agency on the Council pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
  (e) Governing policies
     All actions of the Council and of members of the Council shall be in accordance with and furtherance of the policies prescribed under section 405(a) of this title.
  (f) General authority with respect to FAR
     Subject to section 405(b) of this title, the Council shall manage, coordinate, control, and monitor the maintenance of, and issuance of and changes in, the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
