  (a) Requirement for periodic adjustment
    (1) On October 1 of each year that is evenly divisible by five, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall adjust each acquisition-related dollar threshold provided by law, as described in subsection (c) of this section, to the baseline constant dollar value of that threshold.
    (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1), the baseline constant dollar value–
      (A) for a dollar threshold in effect on October 1, 2000, that was first specified in a law that took effect on or before such date shall be the October 1, 2000, constant dollar value of that dollar threshold; and
      (B) for a dollar threshold specified in a law that takes effect after October 1, 2000, shall be the constant dollar value of that threshold as of the effective date of that dollar threshold pursuant to such law.
  (b) Adjustments effective upon publication
     The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall publish a notice of the adjusted dollar thresholds under this section in the Federal Register. The adjusted dollar thresholds shall take effect on the date of publication.
  (c) Acquisition-related dollar thresholds
     Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the requirement for adjustment under subsection (a) of this section applies to a dollar threshold that is specified in law as a factor in defining the scope of the applicability of a policy, procedure, requirement, or restriction provided in that law to the procurement of property or services by an executive agency, as determined by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council.
  (d) Excluded thresholds
     Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to–
    (1) dollar thresholds in sections 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40;
    (2) dollar thresholds in the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.); or
    (3) dollar thresholds established by the United States Trade Representative pursuant to title III of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2511 et seq.).
  (e) Calculation of adjustments
     An adjustment under this section shall–
    (1) be calculated on the basis of changes in the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumers published monthly by the Department of Labor; and
    (2) be rounded–
      (A) in the case of a dollar threshold that (as in effect on the day before the adjustment) is less than $10,000, to the nearest $500;
      (B) in the case of a dollar threshold that (as in effect on the day before the adjustment) is not less than $10,000, but is less than $100,000, to the nearest $5,000;
      (C) in the case of a dollar threshold that (as in effect on the day before the adjustment) is not less than $100,000, but is less than $1,000,000, to the nearest $50,000; and
      (D) in the case of a dollar threshold that (as in effect on the day before the adjustment) is $1,000,000 or more, to the nearest $500,000.
  (f) Petition for inclusion of omitted threshold
    (1) If a dollar threshold adjustable under this section is not included in a notice of adjustment published under subsection (b) of this section, any person may request adjustment of that dollar threshold by submitting a petition for adjustment to the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy.
    (2) Upon receipt of a petition for adjustment of a dollar threshold under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall–
      (A) determine, in writing, whether that dollar threshold is required to be adjusted under this section; and
      (B) if so, shall publish in the Federal Register a revised notice of the adjusted dollar thresholds under this section that includes the adjustment of the dollar threshold covered by the petition.
    (3) The adjustment of a dollar threshold pursuant to a petition under this subsection shall take effect on the date of the publication of the revised notice adding the adjustment of that dollar threshold under paragraph (2)(B).
