  (a) In general
     Each registration shall remain in force for 10 years, except that the registration of any mark shall be canceled by the Commissioner for failure to comply with the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, upon the expiration of the following time periods, as applicable:
    (1) For registrations issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, at the end of 6 years following the date of registration.
    (2) For registrations published under the provisions of section 1062(c) of this title, at the end of 6 years following the date of publication under such section.
    (3) For all registrations, at the end of each successive 10-year period following the date of registration.
  (b) Affidavit of continuing use
     During the 1-year period immediately preceding the end of the applicable time period set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the owner of the registration shall pay the prescribed fee and file in the Patent and Trademark Office–
    (1) an affidavit setting forth those goods or services recited in the registration on or in connection with which the mark is in use in commerce and such number of specimens or facsimiles showing current use of the mark as may be required by the Commissioner; or
    (2) an affidavit setting forth those goods or services recited in the registration on or in connection with which the mark is not in use in commerce and showing that any such nonuse is due to special circumstances which excuse such nonuse and is not due to any intention to abandon the mark.
  (c) Grace period for submissions; deficiency
    (1) The owner of the registration may make the submissions required under this section within a grace period of 6 months after the end of the applicable time period set forth in subsection (a) of this section. Such submission is required to be accompanied by a surcharge prescribed by the Commissioner.
    (2) If any submission filed under this section is deficient, the deficiency may be corrected after the statutory time period and within the time prescribed after notification of the deficiency. Such submission is required to be accompanied by a surcharge prescribed by the Commissioner.
  (d) Notice of affidavit requirement
     Special notice of the requirement for affidavits under this section shall be attached to each certificate of registration and notice of publication under section 1062(c) of this title.
  (e) Notification of acceptance or refusal of affidavits
     The Commissioner shall notify any owner who files 1 of the affidavits required by this section of the Commissioner“s acceptance or refusal thereof and, in the case of a refusal, the reasons therefor.
  (f) Designation of resident for service of process and notices
     If the registrant is not domiciled in the United States, the registrant shall designate by a written document filed in the Patent and Trademark Office the name and address of some person resident in the United States on whom may be served notices or process in proceedings affecting the mark. Such notices or process may be served upon the person so designated by leaving with that person or mailing to that person a copy thereof at the address specified in the last designation so filed. If the person so designated cannot be found at the address given in the last designation, such notice or process may be served upon the Commissioner.
