   The following acts and the causing thereof are prohibited:
  (a) The introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of any misbranded hazardous substance or banned hazardous substance.
  (b) The alteration, mutilation, destruction, obliteration, or removal of the whole or any part of the label of, or the doing of any other act with respect to, a hazardous substance, if such act is done while the substance is in interstate commerce, or while the substance is held for sale (whether or not the first sale) after shipment in interstate commerce, and results in the hazardous substance being a misbranded hazardous substance or banned hazardous substance.
  (c) The receipt in interstate commerce of any misbranded hazardous substance or banned hazardous substance and the delivery or proffered delivery thereof for pay or otherwise.
  (d) The giving of a guarantee or undertaking referred to in section 1264(b)(2) of this title which guarantee or undertaking is false, except by a person who relied upon a guarantee or undertaking to the same effect signed by, and containing the name and address of, the person residing in the United States from whom he received in good faith the hazardous substance.
  (e) The failure to permit entry or inspection as authorized by section 1270(b) of this title or to permit access to and copying of any record as authorized by section 1271 of this title.
  (f) The introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce, or the receipt in interstate commerce and subsequent delivery or proffered delivery for pay or otherwise, of a hazardous substance in a reused food, drug, or cosmetic container or in a container which, though not a reused container, is identifiable as a food, drug, or cosmetic container by its labeling or by other identification. The reuse of a food, drug, or cosmetic container as a container for a hazardous substance shall be deemed to be an act which results in the hazardous substance being a misbranded hazardous substance. As used in this paragraph, the terms ””food““, ””drug““, and ””cosmetic““ shall have the same meanings as in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.].
  (g) The manufacture of a misbranded hazardous substance or banned hazardous substance within the District of Columbia or within any territory not organized with a legislative body.
  (h) The use by any person to his own advantage, or revealing other than to the Commission or officers or employees of the Commission, or to the courts when relevant in any judicial proceeding under this chapter, of any information acquired under authority of section 1270 of this title concerning any method of process which as a trade secret is entitled to protection.
  (i) The failure to notify the Commission with respect to exports, pursuant to section 1273(d) of this title.
  (j) The failure to comply with an order issued under section 1274 of this title.
  (k) The introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of any lead solder which has a lead content in excess of 0.2 percent which does not prominently display a warning label stating the lead content of the solder and warning that the use of such solder in the making of joints or fittings in any private or public potable water supply system is prohibited.
