  (a) Promulgation, contents, etc., of regulations
     The Bureau shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. Except with respect to the provisions of section 1639 of this title that apply to a mortgage referred to in section 1602(aa) \1\N of this title, such regulations may contain such additional requirements, classifications, differentiations, or other provisions, and may provide for such adjustments and exceptions for all or any class of transactions, as in the judgment of the Bureau are necessary or proper to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, to prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate compliance therewith.
  (b) Model disclosure forms and clauses; publication, criteria, compliance, etc.
     The Bureau shall publish a single, integrated disclosure for mortgage loan transactions (including real estate settlement cost statements) which includes the disclosure requirements of this subchapter in conjunction with the disclosure requirements of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 [12 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.] that, taken together, may apply to a transaction that is subject to both or either provisions of law. The purpose of such model disclosure shall be to facilitate compliance with the disclosure requirements of this subchapter and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974, and to aid the borrower or lessee in understanding the transaction by utilizing readily understandable language to simplify the technical nature of the disclosures. In devising such forms, the Bureau shall consider the use by creditors or lessors of data processing or similar automated equipment. Nothing in this subchapter may be construed to require a creditor or lessor to use any such model form or clause prescribed by the Bureau under this section. A creditor or lessor shall be deemed to be in compliance with the disclosure provisions of this subchapter with respect to other than numerical disclosures if the creditor or lessor (1) uses any appropriate model form or clause as published by the Bureau, or (2) uses any such model form or clause and changes it by (A) deleting any information which is not required by this subchapter, or (B) rearranging the format, if in making such deletion or rearranging the format, the creditor or lessor does not affect the substance, clarity, or meaningful sequence of the disclosure.
  (c) Procedures applicable for adoption of model forms and clauses
     Model disclosure forms and clauses shall be adopted by the Bureau after notice duly given in the Federal Register and an opportunity for public comment in accordance with section 553 of title 5.
  (d) Effective dates of regulations containing new disclosure requirements
     Any regulation of the Bureau, or any amendment or interpretation thereof, requiring any disclosure which differs from the disclosures previously required by this part, part D, or part E of this subchapter or by any regulation of the Bureau promulgated thereunder shall have an effective date of that October 1 which follows by at least six months the date of promulgation, except that the Bureau may at its discretion take interim action by regulation, amendment, or interpretation to lengthen the period of time permitted for creditors or lessors to adjust their forms to accommodate new requirements or shorten the length of time for creditors or lessors to make such adjustments when it makes a specific finding that such action is necessary to comply with the findings of a court or to prevent unfair or deceptive disclosure practices. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, any creditor or lessor may comply with any such newly promulgated disclosure requirements prior to the effective date of the requirements.
  (f) \2\N Exemption authority
    (1) In general
       The Bureau may exempt, by regulation, from all or part of this subchapter all or any class of transactions, other than transactions involving any mortgage described in section 1602(aa) \1\ of this title, for which, in the determination of the Bureau, coverage under all or part of this subchapter does not provide a meaningful benefit to consumers in the form of useful information or protection.
    (2) Factors for consideration
       In determining which classes of transactions to exempt in whole or in part under paragraph (1), the Bureau shall consider the following factors and publish its rationale at the time a proposed exemption is published for comment:
      (A) The amount of the loan and whether the disclosures, right of rescission, and other provisions provide a benefit to the consumers who are parties to such transactions, as determined by the Bureau.
      (B) The extent to which the requirements of this subchapter complicate, hinder, or make more expensive the credit process for the class of transactions.
      (C) The status of the borrower, including–
        (i) any related financial arrangements of the borrower, as determined by the Bureau;
        (ii) the financial sophistication of the borrower relative to the type of transaction; and
        (iii) the importance to the borrower of the credit, related supporting property, and coverage under this subchapter, as determined by the Bureau;
      (D) whether the loan is secured by the principal residence of the consumer; and
      (E) whether the goal of consumer protection would be undermined by such an exemption.
  (g) Waiver for certain borrowers
    (1) In general
       The Bureau, by regulation, may exempt from the requirements of this subchapter certain credit transactions if–
      (A) the transaction involves a consumer–
        (i) with an annual earned income of more than $200,000; or
        (ii) having net assets in excess of $1,000,000 at the time of the transaction; and
      (B) a waiver that is handwritten, signed, and dated by the consumer is first obtained from the consumer.
    (2) Adjustments by the Bureau
       The Bureau, at its discretion, may adjust the annual earned income and net asset requirements of paragraph (1) for inflation.
      (i) \3\N Authority of the Board to prescribe rules
         Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Board shall have authority to prescribe rules under this subchapter with respect to a person described in section 5519(a) of title 12. Regulations prescribed under this subsection may contain such classifications, differentiations, or other provisions, as in the judgment of the Board are necessary or proper to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, to prevent circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate compliance therewith.
