  (a) Thirtieth day after filing or such earlier date as determined by Director; consolidation of subsequent statement with earlier recording
     Except as hereinafter provided, the effective date of a statement of record, or any amendment thereto, shall be the thirtieth day after the filing thereof or such earlier date as the Director may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of purchasers. If any amendment to any such statement is filed prior to the effective date of the statement, the statement shall be deemed to have been filed when such amendment was filed; except that such an amendment filed with the consent of the Director, or filed pursuant to an order of the Director, shall be treated as being filed as of the date of the filing of the statement of record. When a developer records additional lands to be offered for disposition, he may consolidate the subsequent statement of record with any earlier recording offering subdivided land for disposition under the same promotional plan. At the time of consolidation the developer shall include in the consolidated statement of record any material changes in the information contained in the earlier statement.
  (b) Incomplete or inaccurate statements of record
     If it appears to the Director that a statement of record, or any amendment thereto, is on its face incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, the Director shall so advise the developer within a reasonable time after the filing of the statement or the amendment, but prior to the date the statement or amendment would otherwise be effective. Such notification shall serve to suspend the effective date of the statement or the amendment until thirty days after the developer files such additional information as the Director shall require. Any developer, upon receipt of such notice, may request a hearing, and such hearing shall be held within twenty days of receipt of such request by the Director.
  (c) Amendment of statement of record
     If, at any time subsequent to the effective date of a statement of record, a change shall occur affecting any material fact required to be contained in the statement, the developer shall promptly file an amendment thereto. Upon receipt of any such amendment, the Director may, if he determines such action to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of purchasers, suspend the statement of record until the amendment becomes effective.
  (d) Suspension of statement of record containing untrue statement or omission to state material fact; notice and hearing; termination of order of suspension
     If it appears to the Director at any time that a statement of record, which is in effect, includes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, the Director may, after notice, and after opportunity for hearing (at a time fixed by the Director) within fifteen days after such notice, issue an order suspending the statement of record. When such statement has been amended in accordance with such order, the Director shall so declare and thereupon the order shall cease to be effective.
  (e) Examination to determine issuance of order; access to records; order suspending statement of record upon failure to cooperate
     The Director is hereby empowered to make an examination in any case to determine whether an order should issue under subsection (d) of this section. In making such examination, the Director or anyone designated by him shall have access to and may demand the production of any books and papers of, and may administer oaths and affirmations to and examine, the developer, any agents or any other person, in respect of any matter relevant to the examination. If the developer or any agents shall fail to cooperate, or shall obstruct or refuse to permit the making of an examination, such conduct shall be proper ground for the issuance of an order suspending the statement of record.
  (f) Service of notices
     Any notice required under this section shall be sent to or served on the developer or his authorized agent.
