  (a) Appointment; purposes
     The Commission shall appoint Chronic Hazard Advisory Panels (hereinafter referred to as the Panel or Panels) to advise the Commission in accordance with the provisions of section 2080(b) of this title respecting the chronic hazards of cancer, birth defects, and gene mutations associated with consumer products.
  (b) Composition; membership
     Each Panel shall consist of 7 members appointed by the Commission from a list of nominees who shall be nominated by the President of the National Academy of Sciences from scientists–
    (1) who are not officers or employees of the United States (other than employees of the National Institutes of Health, the National Toxicology Program, or the National Center for Toxicological Research), and who do not receive compensation from or have any substantial financial interest in any manufacturer, distributor, or retailer of a consumer product; and
    (2) who have demonstrated the ability to critically assess chronic hazards and risks to human health presented by the exposure of humans to toxic substances or as demonstrated by the exposure of animals to such substances.
       The President of the National Academy of Sciences shall nominate for each Panel a number of individuals equal to three times the number of members to be appointed to the Panel.
  (c) Chairman and Vice Chairman; election; term
     The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Panel shall be elected from among the members and shall serve for the duration of the Panel.
  (d) Majority vote
     Decisions of the Panel shall be made by a majority of the Panel.
  (e) Administrative support services
     The Commission shall provide each Panel with such administrative support services as it may require to carry out its duties under section 2080 of this title.
  (f) Compensation
     A member of a Panel appointed under subsection (a) of this section shall be paid at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule for each day (including traveltime) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the Panel.
  (g) Requests for and disclosures of information
     Each Panel shall request information and disclose information to the public, as provided in subsection (h) of this section, only through the Commission.
  (h) Information from other Federal departments and agencies
    (1) Notwithstanding any statutory restriction on the authority of agencies and departments of the Federal Government to share information, such agencies and departments shall provide the Panel with such information and data as each Panel, through the Commission, may request to carry out its duties under section 2080 of this title. Each Panel may request information, through the Commission, from States, industry and other private sources as it may require to carry out its responsibilities.
    (2) Section 2055 of this title shall apply to the disclosure of information by the Panel but shall not apply to the disclosure of information to the Panel.
