  (a) Hazardous substances and poisons
     The functions of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act [15 U.S.C. 1261 et seq.] and the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 [15 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.] are transferred to the Commission. The functions of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.], to the extent such functions relate to the administration and enforcement of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970, are transferred to the Commission.
  (b) Flammable fabrics
     The functions of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Federal Trade Commission under the Flammable Fabrics Act [15 U.S.C. 1191 et seq.] are transferred to the Commission. The functions of the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.], to the extent such functions relate to the administration and enforcement of the Flammable Fabrics Act, are transferred to the Commission.
  (c) Household refrigerators
     The functions of the Secretary of Commerce and the Federal Trade Commission under the Act of August 2, 1956 [15 U.S.C. 1211 et seq.] are transferred to the Commission.
  (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 110–314, title II, § 237, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3076
  (e) Transfer of personnel, property, records, etc.; continued application of orders, rules, etc.
    (1)      (A) All personnel, property, records, obligations, and commitments, which are used primarily with respect to any function transferred under the provisions of subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall be transferred to the Commission, except those associated with fire and flammability research in the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The transfer of personnel pursuant to this paragraph shall be without reduction in classification or compensation for one year after such transfer, except that the Chairman of the Commission shall have full authority to assign personnel during such one-year period in order to efficiently carry out functions transferred to the Commission under this section.
      (B) Any commissioned officer of the Public Health Service who upon the day before the effective date of this section, is serving as such officer primarily in the performance of functions transferred by this chapter to the Commission, may, if such officer so elects, acquire competitive status and be transferred to a competitive position in the Commission subject to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, under the terms prescribed in paragraphs (3) through (8)(A) of section 15(b) of the Clean Air Amendments of 1970.
    (2) All orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, contracts, certificates, licenses, and privileges (A) which have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to become effective in the exercise of functions which are transferred under this section by any department or agency, any functions of which are transferred by this section, and (B) which are in effect at the time this section takes effect, shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or repealed by the Commission, by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
    (3) The provisions of this section shall not affect any proceedings pending at the time this section takes effect before any department or agency, functions of which are transferred by this section; except that such proceedings, to the extent that they relate to functions so transferred, shall be continued before the Commission. Orders shall be issued in such proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, and payments shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this section had not been enacted; and orders issued in any such proceedings shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, or repealed by the Commission, by a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
    (4) The provisions of this section shall not affect suits commenced prior to the date this section takes effect and in all such suits proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, and judgments rendered, in the same manner and effect as if this section had not been enacted; except that if before the date on which this section takes effect, any department or agency (or officer thereof in his official capacity) is a party to a suit involving functions transferred to the Commission, then such suit shall be continued by the Commission. No cause of action, and no suit, action, or other proceeding, by or against any department or agency (or officer thereof in his official capacity) functions of which are transferred by this section, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this section. Causes of actions, suits, actions, or other proceedings may be asserted by or against the United States or the Commission as may be appropriate and, in any litigation pending when this section takes effect, the court may at any time, on its own motion or that of any party, enter an order which will give effect to the provisions of this paragraph.
  (f) ””Function““ defined
     For purposes of this section, (1) the term ””function““ includes power and duty, and (2) the transfer of a function, under any provision of law, of an agency or the head of a department shall also be a transfer of all functions under such law which are exercised by any office or officer of such agency, or department.
