  (a) Establishment
     There are hereby established two classes of honorary awards for the recognition of outstanding and distinguished service by public safety officers–
    (1) the President“s Award For Outstanding Public Safety Service (””President“s Award““); and
    (2) the Secretary“s Award For Distinguished Public Safety Service (””Secretary“s Award““).
  (b) Description
    (1) The President“s Award shall be presented by the President of the United States to public safety officers for extraordinary valor in the line of duty or for outstanding contribution to public safety.
    (2) The Secretary“s Award shall be presented by the Secretary or by the Attorney General to public safety officers for distinguished service in the field of public safety.
  (c) Selection
     The Secretary and the Attorney General shall advise and assist the President in the selection of individuals to whom the President“s Award shall be tendered and in the course of performing such duties they shall seek and review nominations for such awards which are submitted to them by Federal, State, county, and local government officials. They shall annually transmit to the President the names of those individuals determined by them to merit the award, together with the reasons therefor. Recipients of the President“s Award shall be selected by the President.
  (d) Limitation on number of awards
    (1) There shall not be presented in any one calendar year in excess of twelve President“s Awards.
    (2) There shall be no limitation on the number of Secretary“s Awards presented.
  (e) Award
    (1) Each President“s Award shall consist of–
      (A) a medal suitably inscribed, bearing such devices and emblems, and struck from such material as the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary and the Attorney General deems appropriate. The Secretary of the Treasury shall cause the medal to be struck and furnished to the President; and
      (B) an appropriate citation.
    (2) Each Secretary“s Award shall consist of an appropriate citation.
  (f) Regulations
     The Secretary and the Attorney General are authorized and directed to issue jointly such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
  (g) ””Public safety officer““ defined
     As used in this section, the term ””public safety officer““ means a person serving a public agency, with or without compensation, as–
    (1) a firefighter;
    (2) a law enforcement officer, including a corrections or court officer; or
    (3) a civil defense officer.
