   For the purposes of this chapter:
  (1) The term ””consumer product““ means any tangible personal property which is distributed in commerce and which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes (including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed).
  (2) The term ””Commission““ means the Federal Trade Commission.
  (3) The term ””consumer““ means a buyer (other than for purposes of resale) of any consumer product, any person to whom such product is transferred during the duration of an implied or written warranty (or service contract) applicable to the product, and any other person who is entitled by the terms of such warranty (or service contract) or under applicable State law to enforce against the warrantor (or service contractor) the obligations of the warranty (or service contract).
  (4) The term ””supplier““ means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product directly or indirectly available to consumers.
  (5) The term ””warrantor““ means any supplier or other person who gives or offers to give a written warranty or who is or may be obligated under an implied warranty.
  (6) The term ””written warranty““ means–
    (A) any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale of a consumer product by a supplier to a buyer which relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time, or
    (B) any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product to refund, repair, replace, or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking,
   which written affirmation, promise, or undertaking becomes part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a buyer for purposes other than resale of such product.
  (7) The term ””implied warranty““ means an implied warranty arising under State law (as modified by sections 2308 and 2304(a) of this title) in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product.
  (8) The term ””service contract““ means a contract in writing to perform, over a fixed period of time or for a specified duration, services relating to the maintenance or repair (or both) of a consumer product.
  (9) The term ””reasonable and necessary maintenance““ consists of those operations (A) which the consumer reasonably can be expected to perform or have performed and (B) which are necessary to keep any consumer product performing its intended function and operating at a reasonable level of performance.
  (10) The term ””remedy““ means whichever of the following actions the warrantor elects:
    (A) repair,
    (B) replacement, or
    (C) refund;
   except that the warrantor may not elect refund unless (i) the warrantor is unable to provide replacement and repair is not commercially practicable or cannot be timely made, or (ii) the consumer is willing to accept such refund.
  (11) The term ””replacement““ means furnishing a new consumer product which is identical or reasonably equivalent to the warranted consumer product.
  (12) The term ””refund““ means refunding the actual purchase price (less reasonable depreciation based on actual use where permitted by rules of the Commission).
  (13) The term ””distributed in commerce““ means sold in commerce, introduced or delivered for introduction into commerce, or held for sale or distribution after introduction into commerce.
  (14) The term ””commerce““ means trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation–
    (A) between a place in a State and any place outside thereof, or
    (B) which affects trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation described in subparagraph (A).
  (15) The term ””State““ means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Canal Zone, or American Samoa. The term ””State law““ includes a law of the United States applicable only to the District of Columbia or only to a territory or possession of the United States; and the term ””Federal law““ excludes any State law.
