  (a) Federal Trade Commission Act and Federal Seed Act
    (1) Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to repeal, invalidate, or supersede the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.] or any statute defined therein as an Antitrust Act.
    (2) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to repeal, invalidate, or supersede the Federal Seed Act [7 U.S.C. 1551 et seq.] and nothing in this chapter shall apply to seed for planting.
  (b) Rights, remedies, and liabilities
    (1) Nothing in this chapter shall invalidate or restrict any right or remedy of any consumer under State law or any other Federal law.
    (2) Nothing in this chapter (other than sections 2308 and 2304(a)(2) and (4) of this title) shall (A) affect the liability of, or impose liability on, any person for personal injury, or (B) supersede any provision of State law regarding consequential damages for injury to the person or other injury.
  (c) State warranty laws
    (1) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section and in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a State requirement–
      (A) which relates to labeling or disclosure with respect to written warranties or performance thereunder;
      (B) which is within the scope of an applicable requirement of sections 2302, 2303, and 2304 of this title (and rules implementing such sections), and
      (C) which is not identical to a requirement of section 2302, 2303, or 2304 of this title (or a rule thereunder),
         shall not be applicable to written warranties complying with such sections (or rules thereunder).
    (2) If, upon application of an appropriate State agency, the Commission determines (pursuant to rules issued in accordance with section 2309 of this title) that any requirement of such State covering any transaction to which this chapter applies (A) affords protection to consumers greater than the requirements of this chapter and (B) does not unduly burden interstate commerce, then such State requirement shall be applicable (notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection) to the extent specified in such determination for so long as the State administers and enforces effectively any such greater requirement.
  (d) Other Federal warranty laws
     This chapter (other than section 2302(c) of this title) shall be inapplicable to any written warranty the making or content of which is otherwise governed by Federal law. If only a portion of a written warranty is so governed by Federal law, the remaining portion shall be subject to this chapter.
