  (a) Research, development, and demonstration
     The Secretary of Energy shall provide funds, by contract, to initiate, continue, supplement, and maintain research, development, and demonstration activities which are necessary to carry out the purposes of the project. The Secretary of Energy may enter into such contracts with any Federal agency, laboratory, university, nonprofit organization, industrial organization, public or private agency, institution, organization, corporation, partnership, or individual.
  (b) Consultation
     In addition to the requirements of sections 2503 and 2504 of this title, the Secretary of Energy, in the exercise of his duties and responsibilities under this section, shall consult with the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Department of Agriculture, and representatives of other appropriate Federal agencies, and shall establish procedures for periodic consultation with representatives of science, industry, and such other groups as may have special expertise in electric and hybrid vehicle research, development, and demonstration.
  (c) Rules of Secretary of Energy; funding applications; required advertising
     Each contract under this section shall be entered into in accordance with such rules as the Secretary of Energy may prescribe in accordance with the provisions of this section. Each application for funding shall be made in writing in such form and with such content and other submissions as the Secretary of Energy shall require. The Secretary of Energy may enter into contracts under this section without regard to section 6101 of title 41.
  (d) Purchase or lease of demonstration vehicles pursuant to agreements and utilization of Federal forms of assistance and participation authorized under other statutory provisions
     In addition to contracting for the purchase or lease of vehicles when conducting the demonstrations established under section 2506 of this title, the Secretary of Energy may acquire or secure use of such vehicles, or have such vehicles acquired or used by others, by making agreements and utilizing various forms of Federal assistance and participation which is authorized under the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (Public Law 93–438) [42 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.] and the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 (Public Law 93–577) [42 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.].
  (e) Cost-sharing and use of American materials for demonstrations
     When contracting and otherwise using Federal funds to conduct demonstrations under this chapter, the Secretary of Energy shall seek cost-sharing with others to the maximum extent practical. During the first 2 years of demonstration activities the Secretary of Energy may enter into procurement or lease contracts for purposes of carrying out demonstrations under this chapter without regard to the provisions of chapter 83 of title 41.
