  (a) Bias of surface transportation systems; submission of report
     The Secretary of Energy shall conduct a study to determine the existence of any tax, regulatory, traffic, urban design, rural electrical, or other institutional factor which tends or may tend to bias surface transportation systems toward vehicles of particular characteristics. The Secretary of Energy shall submit a report to the Congress on the findings and conclusions of such study, within 1 year after September 17, 1976. The report shall include any legislative or other recommendations of the Secretary of Energy.
  (b) Material demand and pollution effect; impact statement
     The Secretary of Energy shall conduct a continuing assessment of the long-range material demand and pollution effects which may result from or in connection with the electrification of urban traffic. Such assessment shall include a statement of the Secretary of Energy“s current findings in each report submitted under section 2513 \1\N of this title. Any environmental impact statement which may be filed under a Federal law with respect to research, development, or demonstration activities under this chapter shall include reference to the matters which are subject to assessment under this subsection.
  (c) Incentives to encourage utilization; inclusion of electric vehicles in calculation of average fuel economy; evaluation program; annual report; final report and recommendations to Congress on January 1, 1987
     The Secretary of Energy shall perform, or cause to be performed, studies and research on incentives to promote broader utilization and consumer acceptance of electric and hybrid vehicle technologies. A description and a statement of the findings of such studies and research activities shall be included in each report submitted under section 2513 \1\ of this title.
    (1) The Secretary of Energy in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is authorized and directed to conduct a seven-year evaluation program of the inclusion of electric vehicles, as defined in section 512(b)(2) \1\ of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2012(b)(2)), in the calculation of average fuel economy pursuant to section 32904(a)(1) of title 49 to determine the value and implications of such inclusion as an incentive for the early initiation of industrial engineering development and initial commercialization of electric vehicles in the United States. The evaluation program shall be conducted in parallel with the research and development activities of section 2505 of this title and demonstration activities of section 2506 of this title to provide all necessary information no later than January 1, 1987, for the private sector and Federal, State and local officials to make required decisions for the full commercialization of electric vehicles in the United States.
    (2) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Transportation, shall implement immediately the evaluation program by promulgating, within sixty days of January 7, 1980, regulations to include electric vehicles in average fuel economy calculations under section 32904(a)(1) of title 49.
    (3) The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall include a full discussion of this evaluation program in the annual report required by section 2513 \1\ of this title in each year after promulgation of the regulations under paragraph (2). The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall submit to the Congress on January 1, 1987, a final report on the results of the evaluation program and any recommendations regarding the continued inclusion of electric vehicles in the average fuel economy calculations under part C of subtitle VI of title 49.
  (d) Safety standards and regulations
     The Secretary of Transportation shall conduct a study of the current and future applicability of safety standards and regulations to electric and hybrid vehicles. The Secretary of Transportation shall report the results of such study to the Secretary of Energy and the Congress within 1 year after September 17, 1976.
  (e) Regenerative braking systems
     The Secretary of Energy shall conduct a study to determine the overall effectiveness and feasibility of including regenerative braking systems on electric and other automobiles in order to recover energy. In such study the Secretary of Energy shall–
    (1) review the history of regenerative braking devices;
    (2) describe relevant experimental test data and theoretical calculations with respect to such devices;
    (3) assess the net energy impacts and cost effectiveness of such devices;
    (4) examine present patents and patent policy regarding such devices; and
    (5) determine whether regenerative braking should be used on some of the advanced electric or hybrid vehicles to be purchased or leased pursuant to section 2506(c)(2) of this title.
       The Secretary of Energy shall submit a report to the Congress on the findings and conclusions of such study within 1 year after September 17, 1976.
