  (a) Study requirement
     The head of each Federal department or agency that owns a Federal building shall conduct a study for the purpose of determining the extent of radon contamination in such buildings. Such study shall include, in the case of a Federal building using a nonpublic water source (such as a well or other groundwater), radon contamination of the water.
  (b) High-risk Federal buildings
    (1) The Administrator shall identify and compile a list of areas within the United States which the Administrator, in consultation with Federal departments and agencies, determines have a high probability of including Federal buildings which have elevated levels of radon.
    (2) In compiling such list, the Administrator shall make such determinations on the basis of, among other things, the following:
      (A) Geological data.
      (B) Data on high radon levels in homes and other structures near any such Federal building.
      (C) Physical characteristics of the Federal buildings.
  (c) Study designs
     Studies required under subsection (a) of this section shall be based on design criteria specified by the Administrator. The head of each Federal department or agency conducting such a study shall submit, not later than July 1, 1989, a study design to the Administrator for approval. The study design shall follow the most recent Environmental Protection Agency guidance documents, including ””A Citizen“s Guide to Radon““; the ””Interim Protocol for Screening and Follow Up: Radon and Radon Decay Products Measurements““; the ””Interim Indoor Radon & Radon Decay Product Measurement Protocol““; and any other recent guidance documents. The study design shall include testing data from a representative sample of Federal buildings in each high-risk area identified in subsection (b) of this section. The study design also shall include additional testing data to the extent resources are available, including any reliable data supplied by Federal agencies, States, or other parties.
  (d) Information on risks and testing
    (1) The Administrator shall provide to the departments or agencies conducting studies under subsection (a) of this section the following:
      (A) Guidance and data detailing the risks associated with high radon levels.
      (B) Technical guidance and related information concerning testing for radon within Federal buildings and water supplies.
      (C) Technical guidance and related information concerning methods for reducing radon levels.
    (2) In addition to the assistance required by paragraph (1), the Administrator is authorized to make available, on a cost reimbursable basis, to the departments or agencies conducting studies under subsection (a) of this section devices suitable for use by such departments or agencies in conducting tests for radon within Federal buildings. For the purpose of assisting such departments or agencies in evaluating any such devices for the presence of radon levels, the Administrator is authorized to recommend laboratories or to make available to such departments or agencies, on a cost reimbursable basis, the use of laboratories of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (e) Study deadline
     Not later than June 1, 1990, the head of each Federal department or agency conducting a study under subsection (a) of this section shall complete the study and provide the study to the Administrator.
  (f) Report to Congress
     Not later than October 1, 1990, the Administrator shall submit a report to the Congress describing the results of the studies conducted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
