  (a) In general
    (1) Subject to paragraph (2)–
      (A) all rulings, policies, or other statements (including any administrative order or settlement agreement) issued after October 21, 1986, by any office, official, or employee of the Department of Energy; and
      (B) all orders, including declaratory judgments, issued by any court after October 21, 1986,
         shall be consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
    (2) Nothing in this section shall affect the settlement approved on July 7, 1986, in In Re: the Department of Energy Stripper Well Exemption Litigation, M.D.L. No. 378, in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas.
  (b) Disbursement of restitutionary amounts as direct restitution to injured persons
    (1) The Secretary shall, through the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy, conduct proceedings expeditiously in accordance with subpart V regulations for the purpose of, to the maximum extent possible–
      (A) identifying persons or classes of persons injured by any actual or alleged violation of the petroleum pricing and allocation regulations issued pursuant to the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 [15 U.S.C. 751 et seq.] or the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970;
      (B) establishing the amount of any injury incurred by such persons; and
      (C) making restitution, through the disbursement of amounts in the escrow accounts described in subsections (b) and (d) of section 4501 of this title, to such persons.
    (2) In conducting such proceedings, the Secretary shall take into consideration the reports released pursuant to several orders of the applicable Federal district court in In Re: the Department of Energy Stripper Well Exemption Litigation, M.D.L. No. 378, in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas.
  (c) Determination of excess amount to be used for indirect restitution
    (1) Within 45 days after October 21, 1986, in the case of fiscal year 1987, and within 45 days after the beginning of each fiscal year after fiscal year 1987, the Secretary shall, using the best information available to the Secretary, determine and publish (along with a justification thereof) in the Federal Register the amount held in the escrow accounts described in subsections (b) and (d) of section 4501 of this title that is in excess of the amount that will be needed to make restitution to persons or classes of persons in accordance with subsection (b)(1) of this section and to meet other commitments of such accounts (including the requirements of section 155 of Public Law 97–377). In making such determination, the Secretary shall give primary consideration to assuring that at all times sufficient funds (including a reasonable reserve) are set aside for making such restitution and meeting such other commitments.
    (2) The Secretary shall make public the information referred to in the first sentence of paragraph (1).
  (d) Disbursement of excess amount as indirect restitution for energy conservation programs
    (1) After the publication of the determination of an excess amount under subsection (c) of this section for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall promptly provide for the disbursement of a portion or all of such excess amount for use in energy conservation programs. The amount so disbursed for a fiscal year shall be the smaller of–
      (A) $200,000,000 minus the amount of Federal funds appropriated for energy conservation programs for such fiscal year; or
      (B) the amount determined under subsection (c) of this section to be the excess amount for such fiscal year.
    (2) After determining the amount to be made available under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall apportion such amount among each of the energy conservation programs in a manner that will provide funding under this chapter for the fiscal year concerned for each of such programs in the same proportionate amount that was provided for each of the programs by the Congress for fiscal year 1986. The Secretary shall then make available each amount apportioned for use under an energy conservation program in the same manner, to the same extent, under the same rulings and regulations, and for the same uses that Federal appropriated funds are made available and used under such program.
    (3) The Secretary shall require that amounts made available under this subsection are used to supplement, and not supplant, funds otherwise available for energy conservation activities under Federal or State law.
