  (a) The Secretary shall establish, implement, and maintain the minimum standards necessary for the safe operation of all Coast Guard search and rescue center facilities, including with respect to the following:
    (1) The lighting, acoustics, and temperature in the facilities.
    (2) The number of individuals on a shift in the facility assigned search and rescue responsibilities (including communications), which may be adjusted based on seasonal workload.
    (3) The length of time an individual may serve on watch to minimize fatigue, based on the best scientific information available.
    (4) The scheduling of individuals having search and rescue responsibilities to minimize fatigue of the individual when on duty in the facility.
    (5) The workload of each individual engaged in search and rescue responsibilities in the facility.
    (6) Stress management for the individuals assigned search and rescue responsibilities in the facilities.
    (7) The design of equipment and facilities to minimize fatigue and enhance search and rescue operations.
    (8) The acquisition and maintenance of interim search and rescue command center communications equipment.
    (9) Any other requirements that the Secretary believes will increase the safe operation of the search and rescue centers.
  (b) T4Sense of CongressK.–It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary should establish, implement, and maintain minimum standards necessary to ensure that an individual on duty or watch in a Coast Guard search and rescue command center facility does not work more than 12 hours in a 24-hour period, except in an emergency or unforeseen circumstances.
  (c) T4DefinitionK.–For the purposes of this section, the term ””search and rescue center facility““ means a Coast Guard shore facility that maintains a search and rescue mission coordination and communications watch.
  (d) T4Report to CongressK.–The Secretary shall provide a quarterly written report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, describing the status of implementation of the standards described in subsection (b), including a list of the facilities at which such standards have or have not been implemented.
