   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
  (1) Customer
     The term ””customer““ means, with respect to a financial institution, any person (or authorized representative of a person) to whom the financial institution provides a product or service, including that of acting as a fiduciary.
  (2) Customer information of a financial institution
     The term ””customer information of a financial institution““ means any information maintained by or for a financial institution which is derived from the relationship between the financial institution and a customer of the financial institution and is identified with the customer.
  (3) Document
     The term ””document““ means any information in any form.
  (4) Financial institution
    (A) In general
       The term ””financial institution““ means any institution engaged in the business of providing financial services to customers who maintain a credit, deposit, trust, or other financial account or relationship with the institution.
    (B) Certain financial institutions specifically included
       The term ””financial institution““ includes any depository institution (as defined in section 461(b)(1)(A) of title 12), any broker or dealer, any investment adviser or investment company, any insurance company, any loan or finance company, any credit card issuer or operator of a credit card system, and any consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis (as defined in section 1681a(p) of this title).
    (C) Securities institutions
       For purposes of subparagraph (B)–
      (i) the terms ””broker““ and ””dealer““ have the same meanings as given in section 78c of this title;
      (ii) the term ””investment adviser““ has the same meaning as given in section 80b–2(a)(11) of this title; and
      (iii) the term ””investment company““ has the same meaning as given in section 80a–3 of this title.
    (D) Certain persons and entities specifically excluded
       The term ””financial institution““ does not include any person or entity with respect to any financial activity that is subject to the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.] and does not include the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or any entity chartered and operating under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 [12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.].
    (E) Further definition by regulation
       The Federal Trade Commission, after consultation with Federal banking agencies and the Securities and Exchange Commission, may prescribe regulations clarifying or describing the types of institutions which shall be treated as financial institutions for purposes of this subchapter.
