   As used in this subchapter–
  (a) The term ””person““ means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, or any organized group of any of the foregoing.
  (b) The term ””fur““ means any animal skin or part thereof with hair, fleece, or fur fibers attached thereto, either in its raw or processed state, but shall not include such skins as are to be converted into leather or which in processing shall have the hair, fleece, or fur fiber completely removed.
  (c) The term ””used fur““ means fur in any form which has been worn or used by an ultimate consumer.
  (d) The term ””fur product““ means any article of wearing apparel made in whole or in part of fur or used fur.
  (e) The term ””waste fur““ means the ears, throats, or scrap pieces which have been severed from the animal pelt, and shall include mats or plates made therefrom.
  (f) The term ””invoice““ means a written account, memorandum, list, or catalog, which is issued in connection with any commercial dealing in fur products or furs, and describes the particulars of any fur products or furs, transported or delivered to a purchaser, consignee, factor, bailee, correspondent, or agent, or any other person who is engaged in dealing commercially in fur products or furs.
  (g) The term ””Commission““ means the Federal Trade Commission.
  (h) The term ””Federal Trade Commission Act““ means the Act entitled ””An Act to create a Federal Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for other purposes““, approved September 26, 1914, as amended [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].
  (i) The term ””Fur Products Name Guide““ means the register issued by the Commission pursuant to section 69e of this title.
  (j) The term ””commerce““ means commerce between any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, and any place outside thereof; or between points within the same State, Territory, or possession, or the District of Columbia, but through any place outside thereof; or within any Territory or possession or the District of Columbia.
  (k) The term ””United States““ means the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Territories and possessions of the United States.
