   For purposes of this subchapter:
  (1) Consumer
     The term ””consumer““ means an individual who obtains, through a transaction, products or services which are used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, and also means the legal representative of such an individual.
  (2) Electronic
     The term ””electronic““ means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.
  (3) Electronic agent
     The term ””electronic agent““ means a computer program or an electronic or other automated means used independently to initiate an action or respond to electronic records or performances in whole or in part without review or action by an individual at the time of the action or response.
  (4) Electronic record
     The term ””electronic record““ means a contract or other record created, generated, sent, communicated, received, or stored by electronic means.
  (5) Electronic signature
     The term ””electronic signature““ means an electronic sound, symbol, or process, attached to or logically associated with a contract or other record and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the record.
  (6) Federal regulatory agency
     The term ””Federal regulatory agency““ means an agency, as that term is defined in section 552(f) of title 5.
  (7) Information
     The term ””information““ means data, text, images, sounds, codes, computer programs, software, databases, or the like.
  (8) Person
     The term ””person““ means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, governmental agency, public corporation, or any other legal or commercial entity.
  (9) Record
     The term ””record““ means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
  (10) Requirement
     The term ””requirement““ includes a prohibition.
  (11) Self-regulatory organization
     The term ””self-regulatory organization““ means an organization or entity that is not a Federal regulatory agency or a State, but that is under the supervision of a Federal regulatory agency and is authorized under Federal law to adopt and administer rules applicable to its members that are enforced by such organization or entity, by a Federal regulatory agency, or by another self-regulatory organization.
  (12) State
     The term ””State““ includes the District of Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.
  (13) Transaction
     The term ””transaction““ means an action or set of actions relating to the conduct of business, consumer, or commercial affairs between two or more persons, including any of the following types of conduct–
    (A) the sale, lease, exchange, licensing, or other disposition of (i) personal property, including goods and intangibles, (ii) services, and (iii) any combination thereof; and
    (B) the sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of any interest in real property, or any combination thereof.
