  (a) Compliance with NEPA
     The issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing the construction and operation of any Alaska natural gas transportation project under section 720a of this title shall be treated as a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).
  (b) Designation of lead agency
    (1) In general
       The Commission–
      (A) shall be the lead agency for purposes of complying with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
      (B) shall be responsible for preparing the environmental impact statement required by section 102(2)(c) \1\N of that Act [42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)] with respect to an Alaska natural gas transportation project under section 720a of this title.
    (2) Consolidation of statements
       In carrying out paragraph (1), the Commission shall prepare a single environmental impact statement, which shall consolidate the environmental reviews of all Federal agencies considering any aspect of the Alaska natural gas transportation project covered by the environmental impact statement.
  (c) Other agencies
    (1) In general
       Each Federal agency considering an aspect of the construction and operation of an Alaska natural gas transportation project under section 720a of this title shall–
      (A) cooperate with the Commission; and
      (B) comply with deadlines established by the Commission in the preparation of the environmental impact statement under this section.
    (2) Satisfaction of NEPA requirements
       The environmental impact statement prepared under this section shall be adopted by each Federal agency described in paragraph (1) in satisfaction of the responsibilities of the Federal agency under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) with respect to the Alaska natural gas transportation project covered by the environmental impact statement.
  (d) Expedited process
     The Commission shall–
    (1) not later than 1 year after the Commission determines that the application under section 720a of this title with respect to an Alaska natural gas transportation project is complete, issue a draft environmental impact statement under this section; and
    (2) not later than 180 days after the date of issuance of the draft environmental impact statement, issue a final environmental impact statement, unless the Commission for good cause determines that additional time is needed.
