  (a) Establishment
     There is established, as an independent office in the executive branch, the Office of the Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects.
  (b) Federal Coordinator
    (1) Appointment
       The Office shall be headed by a Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to serve a term to last until 1 year following the completion of the project referred to in section 720a of this title.
    (2) Compensation
       The Federal Coordinator shall be compensated at the rate prescribed for level III of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5314).
  (c) Duties
     The Federal Coordinator shall be responsible for–
    (1) coordinating the expeditious discharge of all activities by Federal agencies with respect to an Alaska natural gas transportation project; and
    (2) ensuring the compliance of Federal agencies with the provisions of this chapter.
  (d) Reviews and actions of other Federal agencies
    (1) Expedited reviews and actions
       All reviews conducted and actions taken by any Federal agency relating to an Alaska natural gas transportation project authorized under this section shall be expedited, in a manner consistent with completion of the necessary reviews and approvals by the deadlines under this chapter.
    (2) Prohibition of certain terms and conditions
       No Federal agency may include in any certificate, right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization issued to an Alaska natural gas transportation project any term or condition that may be permitted, but is not required, by any applicable law if the Federal Coordinator determines that the term or condition would prevent or impair in any significant respect the expeditious construction and operation, or an expansion, of the Alaska natural gas transportation project.
    (3) Prohibition of certain actions
       Unless required by law, no Federal agency shall add to, amend, or abrogate any certificate, right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization issued to an Alaska natural gas transportation project if the Federal Coordinator determines that the action would prevent or impair in any significant respect the expeditious construction and operation, or an expansion, of the Alaska natural gas transportation project.
    (4) Limitation
       The Federal Coordinator shall not have authority to–
      (A) override–
        (i) the implementation or enforcement of regulations issued by the Commission under section 720a of this title; or
        (ii) an order by the Commission to expand the project under section 720c of this title; or
      (B) impose any terms, conditions, or requirements in addition to those imposed by the Commission or any agency with respect to construction and operation, or an expansion of, the project.
  (e) State coordination
    (1) In general
       The Federal Coordinator and the State shall enter into a joint surveillance and monitoring agreement similar to the agreement in effect during construction of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, to be approved by the President and the Governor of the State, for the purpose of monitoring the construction of the Alaska natural gas transportation project.
    (2) Primary responsibility
       With respect to an Alaska natural gas transportation project–
      (A) the Federal Government shall have primary surveillance and monitoring responsibility in areas where the Alaska natural gas transportation project crosses Federal land or private land; and
      (B) the State government shall have primary surveillance and monitoring responsibility in areas where the Alaska natural gas transportation project crosses State land.
  (f) Transfer of Federal Inspector functions and authority
     On appointment of the Federal Coordinator by the President, all of the functions and authority of the Office of Federal Inspector of Construction for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System vested in the Secretary under section 3012(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (15 U.S.C. 719e note; Public Law 102–486), including all functions and authority described and enumerated in the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1979 (44 Fed. Reg. 33663), Executive Order No. 12142 of June 21, 1979 (44 Fed. Reg. 36927), and section 5 of the President“s decision, shall be transferred to the Federal Coordinator.
  (g) Temporary authority
     The functions, authorities, duties, and responsibilities of the Federal Coordinator shall be vested in the Secretary until the earlier of the appointment of the Federal Coordinator by the President, or 18 months after October 13, 2004.
  (h) Administration
    (1) Personnel appointments
      (A) In general
         The Federal Coordinator may appoint and terminate such personnel as the Federal Coordinator determines to be appropriate.
      (B) Authority of Federal Coordinator
         Personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator under subparagraph (A) shall be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service.
    (2) Compensation
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraph (B), personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator under paragraph (1)(A) shall be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 (relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates).
      (B) Maximum level of compensation
         The rate of pay for personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator under paragraph (1)(A) shall not exceed the maximum level of rate payable for level III of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5314).
      (C) Allowances
         Section 5941 of title 5 shall apply to personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator under paragraph (1)(A).
    (3) Temporary services
      (A) In general
         The Federal Coordinator may procure temporary and intermittent services in accordance with section 3109(b) of title 5.
      (B) Maximum level of compensation
         The level of compensation of an individual employed on a temporary or intermittent basis under subparagraph (A) shall not exceed the maximum level of rate payable for level III of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5314).
    (4) Fees, charges, and commissions
      (A) In general
         With respect to the duties of the Federal Coordinator, as described in this chapter, the Federal Coordinator shall have similar authority to establish, change, and abolish reasonable filing and service fees, charges, and commissions, require deposits of payments, and provide refunds as provided to the Secretary of the Interior in section 1734 of title 43.
      (B) Authority of Secretary of the Interior
         Subparagraph (A) shall not affect the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to establish, change, and abolish reasonable filing and service fees, charges, and commissions, require deposits of payments, and provide refunds under section 1734 of title 43.
      (C) Use of funds
         The Federal Coordinator is authorized to use, without further appropriation, amounts collected under subparagraph (A) to carry out this section.
