  (a) Information required
     Subject to the provisions of section 77ddd of this title, a registration statement relating to a security shall include the following information and documents, as though such inclusion were required by the provisions of section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77g]–
    (1) such information and documents as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe in order to enable the Commission to determine whether any person designated to act as trustee under the indenture under which such security has been or is to be issued is eligible to act as such under subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title; and
    (2) an analysis of any provisions of such indenture with respect to (A) the definition of what shall constitute a default under such indenture, and the withholding of notice to the indenture security holders of any such default, (B) the authentication and delivery of the indenture securities and the application of the proceeds thereof, (C) the release or the release and substitution of any property subject to the lien of the indenture, (D) the satisfaction and discharge of the indenture, and (E) the evidence required to be furnished by the obligor upon the indenture securities to the trustee as to compliance with the conditions and covenants provided for in such indenture.
       The information and documents required by paragraph (1) of this subsection with respect to the person designated to act as indenture trustee shall be contained in a separate part of such registration statement, which part shall be signed by such person. Such part of the registration statement shall be deemed to be a document filed pursuant to this subchapter, and the provisions of sections 11, 12, 17, and 24 of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77k, 77T3lK, 77q, 77x] shall not apply to statements therein or omissions therefrom.
  (b) Refusal of registration statement
    (1) Except as may be permitted by paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Commission shall issue an order prior to the effective date of registration refusing to permit such a registration statement to become effective, if it finds that–
      (A) the security to which such registration statement relates has not been or is not to be issued under an indenture; or
      (B) any person designated as trustee under such indenture is not eligible to act as such under subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title;
         but no such order shall be issued except after notice and opportunity for hearing within the periods and in the manner required with respect to refusal orders pursuant to section 8(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77h(b)]. If and when the Commission deems that the objections on which such order was based have been met, the Commission shall enter an order rescinding such refusal order, and the registration shall become effective at the time provided in section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77h(a)], or upon the date of such rescission, whichever shall be the later.
    (2) In the case of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.], which securities are eligible to be issued, offered, or sold on a delayed basis by or on behalf of the registrant, the Commission shall not be required to issue an order pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this section for failure to designate a trustee eligible to act under subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title if, in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Commission, the issuer of such securities files an application for the purpose of determining such trustee“s eligibility under subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title. The Commission shall issue an order prior to the effective date of such application refusing to permit the application to become effective, if it finds that any person designated as trustee under such indenture is not eligible to act as such under subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title, but no order shall be issued except after notice and opportunity for hearing within the periods and in the manner required with respect to refusal orders pursuant to section 8(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77h(b)]. If after notice and opportunity for hearing the Commission issues an order under this provision, the obligor shall within 5 calendar days appoint a trustee meeting the requirements of subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title. No such appointment shall be effective and such refusal order shall not be rescinded by the Commission until a person eligible to act as trustee under subsection (a) of section 77jjj of this title has been appointed. If no order is issued, an application filed pursuant to this paragraph shall be effective the tenth day after filing thereof or such earlier date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the adequacy of information provided therein, the public interest, and the protection of investors.
  (c) Information required in prospectus
     A prospectus relating to any such security shall include to the extent the Commission may prescribe by rules and regulations as necessary and appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, as though such inclusion were required by section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77j], a written statement containing the analysis set forth in the registration statement, of any indenture provisions with respect to the matters specified in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this section, together with a supplementary analysis, prepared by the Commission, of such provisions and of the effect thereof, if, in the opinion of the Commission, the inclusion of such supplementary analysis is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, and the Commission so declares by order after notice and, if demanded by the issuer, opportunity for hearing thereon. Such order shall be entered prior to the effective date of registration, except that if opportunity for hearing thereon is demanded by the issuer such order shall be entered within a reasonable time after such opportunity for hearing.
  (d) Applicability of other statutory provisions
     The provisions of sections 11, 12, 17, and 24 of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77k, 77T3lK, 77q, 77x], and the provisions of sections 77www and 77yyy of this title, shall not apply to statements in or omissions from any analysis required under the provisions of this section or section 77fff or 77ggg of this title.
