  (a) Application; information required; availability of information to public
     In the case of any security which is not required to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.] and to which subsection (a) of section 77fff of this title is applicable notwithstanding the provisions of section 77ddd of this title, an application for qualification of the indenture under which such security has been or is to be issued shall be filed with the Commission by the issuer of such security. Each such application shall be in such form, and shall be signed in such manner, as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Each such application shall include the information and documents required by subsection (a) of section 77eee of this title. The information and documents required by paragraph (1) of such subsection with respect to the person designated to act as indenture trustee shall be contained in a separate part of such application, which part shall be signed by such person. Each such application shall also include such of the other information and documents which would be required to be filed in order to register such indenture security under the Securities Act of 1933 as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. An application may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time prior to the effective date thereof. Subject to the provisions of section 77uuu of this title, the information and documents contained in or filed with any application shall be made available to the public under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe, and copies thereof, photostatic or otherwise, shall be furnished to every applicant therefor at such reasonable charge as the Commission may prescribe.
  (b) Filing of application
     The filing with the Commission of an application, or of an amendment to an application, shall be deemed to have taken place upon the receipt thereof by the Commission, but, in the case of an application, only if it is accompanied or preceded by payment to the Commission of a filing fee in the amount of $100, such payment to be made in cash or by United States postal money order or certified or bank check, or in such other medium of payment as the Commission may authorize by rule and regulation.
  (c) Applicability of other statutory provisions
     The provisions of section 77h of this title and the provisions of subsection (b) of section 77eee of this title shall apply with respect to every such application, as though such application were a registration statement filed pursuant to the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.].
