  (a) Annual report
     Not later than December 31 of each calendar year beginning in 2009, the IPEC shall submit a report on the activities of the advisory committee during the preceding fiscal year. The annual report shall be submitted to Congress, and disseminated to the people of the United States, in the manner specified in subsections (b) and (g) of section 8113 of this title.
  (b) Contents
     The report required by this section shall include the following:
    (1) The progress made on implementing the strategic plan and on the progress toward fulfillment of the priorities identified under section 8113(e)(1) of this title.
    (2) The progress made in efforts to encourage Federal, State, and local government departments and agencies to accord higher priority to intellectual property enforcement.
    (3) The progress made in working with foreign countries to investigate, arrest, and prosecute entities and individuals involved in the financing, production, trafficking, and sale of counterfeit and infringing goods.
    (4) The manner in which the relevant departments and agencies are working together and sharing information to strengthen intellectual property enforcement.
    (5) An assessment of the successes and shortcomings of the efforts of the Federal Government, including departments and agencies represented on the committee established under section 8111(b)(3) of this title.
    (6) Recommendations, if any and as appropriate, for any changes in enforcement statutes, regulations, or funding levels that the advisory committee considers would significantly improve the effectiveness or efficiency of the effort of the Federal Government to combat counterfeiting and infringement and otherwise strengthen intellectual property enforcement, including through the elimination or consolidation of duplicative programs or initiatives.
    (7) The progress made in strengthening the capacity of countries to protect and enforce intellectual property rights.
    (8) The successes and challenges in sharing with other countries information relating to intellectual property enforcement.
    (9) The progress made under trade agreements and treaties to protect intellectual property rights of United States persons and their licensees.
    (10) The progress made in minimizing duplicative efforts, materials, facilities, and procedures of the Federal agencies and Departments responsible for the enforcement, investigation, or prosecution of intellectual property crimes.
    (11) Recommendations, if any and as appropriate, on how to enhance the efficiency and consistency with which Federal funds and resources are expended to enforce, investigate, or prosecute intellectual property crimes, including the extent to which the agencies and Departments responsible for the enforcement, investigation, or prosecution of intellectual property crimes have utilized existing personnel, materials, technologies, and facilities.
