  (a) In general
     The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Administrator of the Maritime Administration (in this section referred to as the ””Administrator““), may establish a Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Program (in this section referred to as the ””Program““) to provide for the planning, design, and construction of projects for the Port of Guam to improve facilities, relieve port congestion, and provide greater access to port facilities.
  (b) Authorities of the Administrator
     In carrying out the Program, the Administrator may–
    (1) receive funds provided for the Program from Federal and non-Federal entities, including private entities;
    (2) provide for coordination among appropriate governmental agencies to expedite the review process under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for projects carried out under the Program;
    (3) provide for coordination among appropriate governmental agencies in connection with other reviews and requirements applicable to projects carried out under the Program; and
    (4) provide technical assistance to the Port Authority of Guam (and its agents) as needed for projects carried out under the Program.
  (c) Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Fund
    (1) Establishment
       There is established in the Treasury of the United States a separate account to be known as the ””Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Fund““ (in this section referred to as the ””Fund““).
    (2) Deposits
       There shall be deposited into the Fund–
      (A) amounts received by the Administrator from Federal and non-Federal sources under subsection (b)(1);
      (B) amounts transferred to the Administrator under subsection (d); and
      (C) amounts appropriated to carry out this section under subsection (f).
    (3) Use of amounts
       Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Administrator to carry out the Program.
    (4) Administrative expenses
       Not to exceed 3 percent of the amounts appropriated to the Fund for a fiscal year may be used for administrative expenses of the Administrator.
    (5) Availability of amounts
       Amounts in the Fund shall remain available until expended.
  (d) Transfers of amounts
     Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for an intermodal or marine facility comprising a component of the Program shall be transferred to and administered by the Administrator.
  (e) Limitation
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize amounts made available under section 215 of title 23 or any other amounts made available for the construction of highways or amounts otherwise not eligible for making port improvements to be deposited into the Fund.
  (f) Authorization of appropriations
     There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
