  (a) Assessment and collection
     The Commission shall assess and collect application fees at such rates as the Commission shall establish or at such modified rates as it shall establish pursuant to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section.
  (b) Review and adjustment of Schedule by Commission; notification to Congress; judicial review
    (1) The Schedule of Application Fees established under this section shall be reviewed by the Commission every two years after October 1, 1991, and adjusted by the Commission to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index. Increases or decreases in application fees shall apply to all categories of application fees, except that individual fees shall not be adjusted until the increase or decrease, as determined by the net change in the Consumer Price Index since April 7, 1986, amounts to at least $5.00 in the case of fees under $100.00, or 5 percent in the case of fees of $100.00 or more. All fees which require adjustment will be rounded upward to the next $5.00 increment. The Commission shall transmit to the Congress notification of any such adjustment not later than 90 days before the effective date of such adjustment.
    (2) Increases or decreases in application fees made pursuant to this subsection shall not be subject to judicial review.
  (c) Additional application fee; assessment as penalty; amount; dismissal of application or other filing
    (1) The Commission shall prescribe by regulation an additional application fee which shall be assessed as a penalty for late payment of application fees required by subsection (a) of this section. Such penalty shall be 25 percent of the amount of the application fee which was not paid in a timely manner.
    (2) The Commission may dismiss any application or other filing for failure to pay in a timely manner any application fee or penalty under this section.
  (d) Inapplicability of application fees to certain radio services; waiver or deferment of payment
    (1) The application fees established under this section shall not be applicable (A) to governmental entities and nonprofit entities licensed in the following radio services: Local Government, Police, Fire, Highway Maintenance, Forestry-Conservation, Public Safety, and Special Emergency Radio, or (B) to governmental entities licensed in other services.
    (2) The Commission may waive or defer payment of an charge \1\N in any specific instance for good cause shown, where such action would promote the public interest.
  (e) Deposit of moneys in general fund; reimbursement of United States for administration of chapter
     Moneys received from application fees established under this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury to reimburse the United States for amounts appropriated for use by the Commission in carrying out its functions under this chapter.
  (f) Rules and regulations
     The Commission shall prescribe appropriate rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this section.
  (g) Schedule of Application Fees
     Until modified pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the Schedule of Application Fees which the Federal Communications Commission shall prescribe pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be as follows:
     SCHEDULE OF APPLICATION FEES
     xlService
     Fee amount
     T4private radio services
     xl 1. Marine Coast Stations
     a. New License (per station)
     $70.00
     b. Modification of License (per station)
     70.00
     c. Renewal of License (per station)
     70.00
     d. Special Temporary Authority (Initial, Modifications, Extensions)
     100.00
     e. Assignments (per station)
     70.00
     f. Transfers of Control (per station)
     35.00
     xlg. Request for Waiver
