  (a) Civic Action Teams
     In recognition of the special development needs of Palau and the Marshall Islands, the United States shall make available United States military Civic Action Teams for use in Palau or the Marshall Islands under terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by the Government of the United States and the Governments of Palau or the Marshall Islands, as appropriate. The Government of Palau may use the amount of $250,000 annually from current account funds provided pursuant to section 211 of the Compact to defray expenditures attendant to the operation of the Civic Action Teams made available pursuant to this subsection. The Government of the Marshall Islands may use the amount of $250,000 annually from current account funds provided under section 211 of Title Two of the Compact of Free Association with the Marshall Islands to defray expenditures attendant to the operation of the Civic Action Teams made available pursuant to this subsection.
  (b) Inventory and study of natural, historic, and other resources
     The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct, upon request of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, and through the Director of the National Park Service, a comprehensive inventory and study of the most unique and significant natural, historical, cultural, and recreational resources of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands. Areas or sites exhibiting such qualities shall be described and evaluated with the objective of the preservation of their values and their careful use and appreciation by the public, along with a determination of their potential for attracting tourism. Alternative methodologies for such preservation and use shall be developed for each area or site (including continued assistance from the National Park Service); current or impending damage or threats to the resources of such areas or sites shall be identified and evaluated; and authorities needed to properly protect and allow for public use and appreciation shall be identified and discussed. Such inventory and study shall be conducted in full cooperation and consultation with affected governmental officials and the interested public. A full report on such inventory and study shall be transmitted to Palau or the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate no later than two complete calendar years after November 14, 1986. The inventory and study shall also identify areas or sites which, if they were located in the United States, would qualify to be listed on the Registry of Natural Landmarks and the National Register of Historic Places.
  (c) Omitted
  (d) Peleliu and Angaur
     Not later than one year after November 14, 1986, the Secretary of Agriculture, after appropriate studies conducted in consultation with the Government of Palau, shall report to the President and the Congress concerning the feasibility and cost of rehabilitating and restoring the fertility of the topsoil of the islands of Peleliu and Angaur. Upon the request of the Government of Palau, the President shall make the report of the Secretary of Agriculture available to the Government of Palau. Technical assistance to accomplish such rehabilitation and restoration, if feasible, may be provided to the Government of Palau on a nonreimbursable basis, subject to the availability of appropriated funds.
  (e) Power generation
     Neither the Secretary of the Treasury nor any other officer or agent of the United States shall pay or transfer any portion of the sum and amounts payable to the Government of Palau pursuant to this joint resolution to any party other than the Government of Palau, except under the procedures established by the Compact and its related agreements. No funds appropriated pursuant to the Compact, this Act, or any other Act for grants or other assistance to Palau may be used to satisfy any obligation or expense incurred by Palau prior to November 14, 1986, with respect to any contract or debt related to any electrical generating plant or related facilities entered into or incurred by Palau which has not been specifically authorized by Congress in advance, except that the Government of Palau may use any portion of the annual grant under section 211(b) \1\N not required to be devoted to the energy needs of those parts of Palau not served by its central power generating facilities and any portion of the funds under section 212(b) of the Compact for such purpose.
  (f) Reduction of appropriations
     Amounts appropriated to be paid pursuant to section 177 of Article I of Title One or Articles I and III of Title Two of the Compact of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, as set forth in Title II of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, or pursuant to section 103(h), 103(k), or 105(m) of such Act [48 U.S.C. 1903(h), (k), 1905(m)] (Public Law 99–239), or pursuant to Article I of Title Two of the Compact with Palau, as set forth in Title II of this joint resolution, or subsection (T3lK) \2\N of this section shall not be reduced, notwithstanding Public Law 99–177, Public Law 99–366, and other law enacted to implement Public Law 99–177, or any other provision of law.
  (g) Understandings, interpretations, and policy statements
     The Congress reaffirms all of the understandings, interpretations, and policy statements contained in Public Law 99–239 (99 Stat. 1770) [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.]. Congressional Resolution 4–60 adopted by the 4th Congress of the Federated States of Micronesia on March 26, 1986 and Resolution No. 62 adopted by the Nitijela of the Marshall Islands on February 18, 1986 do not exclude, limit or modify any provision of the Compact of Free Association as approved by the United States. To the extent that any understandings, interpretations, and policy statements contained in such Resolutions are inconsistent with the provisions of Public Law 99–239, the United States does not concur therein. The President shall take such steps, including but not limited to, communicating with the Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as may be necessary to preserve all rights of the United States in connection with interpretation and implementation of such Public Law.
  (h) Additional provisions relating to Title Three of Compact
    (1) The Government of the United States recognizes and respects the scarcity and special importance of land in Palau. In making any designation of land pursuant to section 322 of the Compact, the Government of the United States shall follow the policy of requesting the minimum area necessary to accomplish the required security and defense purpose, of requesting only the minimum interest in real property necessary to support such purpose, and of requesting first to satisfy the requirement through public real property, where available, rather than through private real property.
    (2) The Armed Forces of other nations invited to use military areas and facilities in Palau pursuant to section 312 of the Compact shall be permitted only as it is incident to the authority and under the control of the United States. The activities of such third country forces shall be subject to the same limitations and restrictions applicable to the authority of the United States under the terms of the Compact.
    (3) The Government of the United States considers ””Exclusive use““ areas established for the United States pursuant to Title Three of the Compact to be ””within the jurisdiction of Palau,““ as that term is used in section 324 of the Compact.
      (i) Availability of appropriations
         Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated for the Compact of Free Association, Public Law 99–239 [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.], or this joint resolution, in the act of making supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 1986, shall remain available until expended.
      (j) Authority to contract or make payments
        (1) (2) Omitted
  (3) No authority under this subsection to enter into contracts or to make payments shall be effective except to the extent and in such amounts as provided in advance in appropriations Acts. Any provision of this subsection which authorizes the enactment of new budget authority shall be effective only for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1985.
  (k) Annual report
     The Departments of Energy and Interior are directed to provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate with a report by December 1 of each fiscal year detailing how funds were spent during the previous fiscal year for the special medical care and logistical support program for Rongelap and Utrik and for the agriculture and food programs for Eniwetok and Bikini as referenced in Section 103(h) of Public Law 99–239 [48 U.S.C. 1903(h)]. The report shall also specify the anticipated needs during the current and following fiscal years in order to meet the radiological health care and logistical support program for Rongelap and Utrik and the planting, agricultural maintenance, and food programs for Eniwetok and Bikini. It is the sense of the Congress that the special medical care and logistical support program for Rongelap and Utrik and for the agriculture and food programs for Eniwetok and Bikini described in section 103(h) of Public Law 99–239 represent special and continuing moral commitments of the United States which will be annually funded to the extent of the need of the populations of such atolls for such assistance.
