  (a) Certain conditions
    (1) In general
       The Attorney General may permit an alien voluntarily to depart the United States at the alien“s own expense under this subsection, in lieu of being subject to proceedings under section 1229a of this title or prior to the completion of such proceedings, if the alien is not deportable under section 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii) or section 1227(a)(4)(B) of this title.
    (2) Period
       Permission to depart voluntarily under this subsection shall not be valid for a period exceeding 120 days.
    (3) Bond
       The Attorney General may require an alien permitted to depart voluntarily under this subsection to post a voluntary departure bond, to be surrendered upon proof that the alien has departed the United States within the time specified.
    (4) Treatment of aliens arriving in the United States
       In the case of an alien who is arriving in the United States and with respect to whom proceedings under section 1229a of this title are (or would otherwise be) initiated at the time of such alien“s arrival, paragraph (1) shall not apply. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as preventing such an alien from withdrawing the application for admission in accordance with section 1225(a)(4) of this title.
  (b) At conclusion of proceedings
    (1) In general
       The Attorney General may permit an alien voluntarily to depart the United States at the alien“s own expense if, at the conclusion of a proceeding under section 1229a of this title, the immigration judge enters an order granting voluntary departure in lieu of removal and finds that–
      (A) the alien has been physically present in the United States for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the date the notice to appear was served under section 1229(a) of this title;
      (B) the alien is, and has been, a person of good moral character for at least 5 years immediately preceding the alien“s application for voluntary departure;
      (C) the alien is not deportable under section 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii) or section 1227(a)(4) of this title; and
      (D) the alien has established by clear and convincing evidence that the alien has the means to depart the United States and intends to do so.
    (2) Period
       Permission to depart voluntarily under this subsection shall not be valid for a period exceeding 60 days.
    (3) Bond
       An alien permitted to depart voluntarily under this subsection shall be required to post a voluntary departure bond, in an amount necessary to ensure that the alien will depart, to be surrendered upon proof that the alien has departed the United States within the time specified.
  (c) Aliens not eligible
     The Attorney General shall not permit an alien to depart voluntarily under this section if the alien was previously permitted to so depart after having been found inadmissible under section 1182(a)(6)(A) of this title.
  (d) Civil penalty for failure to depart
     If an alien is permitted to depart voluntarily under this section and fails voluntarily to depart the United States within the time period specified, the alien shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $1,000 and not more than $5,000, and be ineligible for a period of 10 years for any further relief under this section and sections 1229b, 1255, 1258, and 1259 of this title. The order permitting the alien to depart voluntarily shall inform the alien of the penalties under this subsection.
  (e) Additional conditions
     The Attorney General may by regulation limit eligibility for voluntary departure under this section for any class or classes of aliens. No court may review any regulation issued under this subsection.
  (f) Judicial review
     No court shall have jurisdiction over an appeal from denial of a request for an order of voluntary departure under subsection (b) of this section, nor shall any court order a stay of an alien“s removal pending consideration of any claim with respect to voluntary departure.
