   Notwithstanding any other provision of law–
  (a) Application
     Any alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under the provisions of either section 101(a)(15)(A)(i) or (ii) or 101(a)(15)(G)(i) or (ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(A)(i), (ii), (G)(i) or (ii)], who has failed to maintain a status under any of those provisions, may apply to the Attorney General for adjustment of his status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
  (b) Record of admission
     If, after consultation with the Secretary of State, it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that the alien has shown compelling reasons demonstrating both that the alien is unable to return to the country represented by the government which accredited the alien or the member of the alien“s immediate family and that adjustment of the alien“s status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence would be in the national interest, that the alien is a person of good moral character, that he is admissible for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.], and that such action would not be contrary to the national welfare, safety, or security, the Attorney General, in his discretion, may record the alien“s lawful admission for permanent residence as of the date the order of the Attorney General approving the application for adjustment of status is made.
  (c) Report to the Congress; resolution not favoring adjustment of status; reduction of quota
     A complete and detailed statement of the facts and pertinent provisions of law in the case shall be reported to the Congress with the reasons for such adjustment of status. Such reports shall be submitted on the first day of each calendar month in which Congress is in session. The Secretary of State shall, if the alien was classifiable as a quota immigrant at the time of his entry, reduce by one the quota of the quota area to which the alien is chargeable under section 202 of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1152] for the fiscal year then current or the next following year in which a quota is available. No quota shall be so reduced by more than 50 per centum in any fiscal year.
  (d) Limitations
     The number of aliens who may be granted the status of aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence in any fiscal year, pursuant to this section, shall not exceed fifty.
