  (a) Authorized planted acreage for 1982 through 1995 crops of wheat and feed grains as prerequisite for loan, etc.; eligibility; determinations; records
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever a set-aside program is in effect for one or more of the 1982 through 1995 crops of wheat and feed grains, the Secretary of Agriculture may require, as a condition of eligibility for loans, purchases, and payments for such crops under the Agricultural Act of 1949 [7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.], that producers not exceed the acreage on the farm normally planted to crops designated by the Secretary, adjusted as deemed necessary by the Secretary to be fair and equitable among producers and reduced by any set-aside or diverted acreage. Such normal crop acreage for any crop year shall be determined as provided by the Secretary. The Secretary may require producers participating in the program to keep such records as the Secretary determines necessary to assist in making such determination.
  (b) Established price payments
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law–
    (1) Whenever the Secretary, for one or more of the 1982 through 1995 crops of wheat and feed grains, requires that producers not exceed the acreage on the farm normally planted to crops designated by the Secretary in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may increase the established price payments for any such commodity by such amount (or if there are no such payments in effect for such crop by providing for payments in such amount) as the Secretary determines appropriate to compensate producers for not exceeding the acreage on the farm normally planted to crops designated by the Secretary and participation in any required set-aside with respect to such commodity.
    (2) In determining the amount of any payments for any commodity under this subsection, the Secretary shall take into account changes in the costs of production resulting from not exceeding the acreage on the farm normally planted to crops designated by the Secretary and participation in any required set-aside with respect to such commodity.
    (3) If payments are provided for any commodity under this subsection, the Secretary may provide for payments for any other commodity in such amount as the Secretary determines necessary for effective operation of the program.
    (4) The Secretary shall adjust any payments under this subsection to reflect, in whole or in part, any land diversion payments for the commodity for which an increase is determined.
  (c) Marketing quotas in effect for 1987 through 1995 crops of wheat; reduction in normally planted acreage as condition prerequisite for loan, etc.
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever marketing quotas are in effect for any of the 1987 through 1995 crops of wheat, the Secretary of Agriculture may require, as a condition of eligibility for loans, purchases, and payments on any commodity under the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), that the acreage normally planted to crops designated by the Secretary, adjusted as considered necessary by the Secretary to be fair and equitable among producers, shall be reduced by a quantity equal to–
    (1) the acreage that the Secretary determines would normally be planted to wheat on a farm; minus
    (2) the individual farm program acreage for the farm under section 107B(d)(3)(A) \1\N of such Act.
