  (a) Referendum of 1958 corn producers
     Not later than December 15, 1958, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum of producers of corn in 1958 in the commercial corn-producing area for 1958 to determine whether such producers favor a price support program as provided in subsection (b) of this section for the 1959 and subsequent crops in lieu of acreage allotments as provided in the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended [7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.], and price support as provided in section 1441 of this title.
  (b) Operative status of certain provisions
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if less than a majority of the producers voting in the referendum conducted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section favor a price support program as provided in this subsection (b), the following provisions of law shall become inoperative:
    (1) [Section enacted section 1329a of this title.]
    (2) [Section enacted section 1444b of this title.]
    (3) [Section repealed section 1441(d)(4) of this title.]
  (c) Cotton research program
     The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized and directed to conduct a special cotton research program designed to reduce the cost of producing upland cotton in the United States at the earliest practicable date. There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums, not to exceed $10,000,000 annually, as may be necessary for the Secretary to carry out this special research program. The Secretary shall report annually to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate with respect to the results of such research.
  (d) Cotton insect eradication
     In order to reduce cotton production costs, to prevent the movement of certain cotton plant insects to areas not now infested, and to enhance the quality of the environment, the Secretary is authorized and directed to carry out programs to destroy and eliminate cotton boll weevils in infested areas of the United States as provided herein and to carry out similar programs with respect to pink bollworms or any other major cotton insect if the Secretary determines that methods and systems have been developed to the point that success in eradication of such insects is assured. The Secretary shall carry out the eradication programs authorized by this subsection through the Commodity Credit Corporation. In carrying out insect eradication projects, the Secretary shall utilize the technical and related services of appropriate Federal, State, private agencies, and cotton organizations. Producers and landowners in an eradication zone, established by the Secretary, who are receiving benefits from any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, shall, as a condition of receiving or continuing any such benefits, participate in and cooperate with the eradication project, as specified in regulations of the Secretary.
     The Secretary may issue such regulations as he deems necessary to enforce the provisions of this subsection with respect to achieving the compliance of producers and landowners who are not receiving benefits from any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture. Any person who knowingly violates any such regulation promulgated by the Secretary under this subsection may be assessed a civil penalty of not to exceed $5,000 for each offense. No civil penalty shall be assessed unless the person shall have been given notice and opportunity for a hearing on such charge in the county, parish, or incorporated city of the residence of the person charged. In determining the amount of the penalty the Secretary shall consider the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business of the person charged, the effect on the person“s ability to continue in business, and the gravity of the violation. Where special measures deemed essential to achievement of the eradication objective are taken by the project and result in a loss of production and income to the producer, the Secretary shall provide reasonable and equitable indemnification from funds available for the project and also provide for appropriate protection of the allotment, acreage history, and average yield for the farm. The cost of the program in each eradication zone shall be determined, and cotton producers in the zone shall be required to pay up to one-half thereof, with the exact share in each zone area to be specified by the Secretary upon his finding that such share is reasonable and equitable based on population levels of the target insect and the degree of control measures normally required. Each producer“s pro rata share shall be deducted from his cotton payment under this Act or otherwise collected, as provided in regulations of the Secretary. Insofar as practicable, cotton producers and other persons engaged in cotton production in the eradication zone shall be employed to participate in the work of the project in such zone. Funding of the program shall be terminated at such time as the Secretary determines and reports to the Congress that complete eradication of the insects for which programs are undertaken pursuant to this subsection has been accomplished. Funds in custody of agencies carrying out the program shall, upon termination of such program, be accounted for to the Secretary for appropriate disposition.
     The Secretary is authorized to cooperate with the Government of Mexico in carrying out operations or measures in Mexico which he deems necessary and feasible to prevent the movement into the United States from Mexico of any insects eradicated under the provisions of this subsection. The measure and character of cooperation carried out under this subsection on the part of the United States and on the part of the Government of Mexico, including the expenditure or use of funds made available by the Secretary under this subsection, shall be such as may be prescribed by the Secretary. Arrangements for the cooperations authorized by this subsection shall be made through and in consultation with the Secretary of State. The Commodity Credit Corporation shall not make any expenditures for carrying out the purposes of this subsection unless the Corporation has received funds to cover such expenditures from appropriations made to carry out the purposes of this subsection. There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Commodity Credit Corporation such sums as the Congress may from time to time determine to be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection.
