  (a) Designation of judges
     The Chief Justice of the United States shall publicly designate 5 district court judges from 5 of the United States judicial circuits who shall constitute a court that shall have jurisdiction to conduct all removal proceedings. The Chief Justice may, in the Chief Justice“s discretion, designate the same judges under this section as are designated pursuant to section 103(a) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1803(a)).
  (b) Terms
     Each judge designated under subsection (a) of this section shall serve for a term of 5 years and shall be eligible for redesignation, except that of the members first designated–
    (1) 1 member shall serve for a term of 1 year;
    (2) 1 member shall serve for a term of 2 years;
    (3) 1 member shall serve for a term of 3 years; and
    (4) 1 member shall serve for a term of 4 years.
  (c) Chief judge
    (1) Designation
       The Chief Justice shall publicly designate one of the judges of the removal court to be the chief judge of the removal court.
    (2) Responsibilities
       The chief judge shall–
      (A) promulgate rules to facilitate the functioning of the removal court; and
      (B) assign the consideration of cases to the various judges on the removal court.
  (d) Expeditious and confidential nature of proceedings
     The provisions of section 103(c) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1803(c)) shall apply to removal proceedings in the same manner as they apply to proceedings under that Act [50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.].
  (e) Establishment of panel of special attorneys
     The removal court shall provide for the designation of a panel of attorneys each of whom–
    (1) has a security clearance which affords the attorney access to classified information, and
    (2) has agreed to represent permanent resident aliens with respect to classified information under section 1534(e)(3) of this title in accordance with (and subject to the penalties under) this subchapter.
