  (a) Civil penalty
    (1) In general
       Any packer or other person that violates this subchapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $10,000 for each violation.
    (2) Continuing violation
       Each day during which a violation continues shall be considered to be a separate violation.
    (3) Factors
       In determining the amount of a civil penalty to be assessed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider the gravity of the offense, the size of the business involved, and the effect of the penalty on the ability of the person that has committed the violation to continue in business.
    (4) Multiple violations
       In determining whether to assess a civil penalty under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider whether a packer or other person subject to this subchapter has engaged in a pattern of errors, delays, or omissions in violation of this subchapter.
  (b) Cease and desist
     In addition to, or in lieu of, a civil penalty under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may issue an order to cease and desist from continuing any violation.
  (c) Notice and hearing
     No penalty shall be assessed, or cease and desist order issued, by the Secretary under this section unless the person against which the penalty is assessed or to which the order is issued is given notice and opportunity for a hearing before the Secretary with respect to the violation.
  (d) Finality and judicial review
    (1) In general
       The order of the Secretary assessing a civil penalty or issuing a cease and desist order under this section shall be final and conclusive unless the affected person files an appeal of the order of the Secretary in United States district court not later than 30 days after the date of the issuance of the order.
    (2) Standard of review
       A finding of the Secretary under this section shall be set aside only if the finding is found to be unsupported by substantial evidence.
  (e) Enforcement
    (1) In general
       If, after the lapse of the period allowed for appeal or after the affirmance of a penalty assessed under this section, the person against which the civil penalty is assessed fails to pay the penalty, the Secretary may refer the matter to the Attorney General who may recover the penalty by an action in United States district court.
    (2) Finality
       In the action, the final order of the Secretary shall not be subject to review.
  (f) Injunction or restraining order
    (1) In general
       If the Secretary has reason to believe that any person subject to this subchapter has failed or refused to provide the Secretary information required to be reported pursuant to this subchapter, and that it would be in the public interest to enjoin the person from further failure to comply with the reporting requirements, the Secretary may notify the Attorney General of the failure.
    (2) Attorney General
       The Attorney General may apply to the appropriate district court of the United States for a temporary or permanent injunction or restraining order.
    (3) Court
       When needed to carry out this subchapter, the court shall, on a proper showing, issue a temporary injunction or restraining order without bond.
  (g) Failure to obey orders
    (1) In general
       If a person subject to this subchapter fails to obey a cease and desist or civil penalty order issued under this subsection after the order has become final and unappealable, or after the appropriate United States district court has entered a final judgment in favor of the Secretary, the United States may apply to the appropriate district court for enforcement of the order.
    (2) Enforcement
       If the court determines that the order was lawfully made and duly served and that the person violated the order, the court shall enforce the order.
    (3) Civil penalty
       If the court finds that the person violated the cease and desist provisions of the order, the person shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 for each offense.
