  (a) Limitation
    (1) Nothing in this chapter may be construed as an entitlement or a determination of an individual“s eligibility or fulfillment of the requisite requirements for any Federal, State, or local governmental program, assistance, or benefits. For purposes of this chapter, eligibility relates only to the general issue of eligibility or ineligibility on the basis of alienage.
    (2) Nothing in this chapter may be construed as addressing alien eligibility for a basic public education as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States under Plyler v. Doe (457 U.S. 202)(1982).
  (b) Benefit eligibility limitations applicable only with respect to aliens present in United States
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the limitations on eligibility for benefits under this chapter shall not apply to eligibility for benefits of aliens who are not residing, or present, in the United States with respect to–
    (1) wages, pensions, annuities, and other earned payments to which an alien is entitled resulting from employment by, or on behalf of, a Federal, State, or local government agency which was not prohibited during the period of such employment or service under section 274A [8 U.S.C. 1324a] or other applicable provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.]; or
    (2) benefits under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
  (c) Not applicable to foreign assistance
     This chapter does not apply to any Federal, State, or local governmental program, assistance, or benefits provided to an alien under any program of foreign assistance as determined by the Secretary of State in consultation with the Attorney General.
  (d) Severability
     If any provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this chapter and the application of the provisions of such to any person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.
