   Flowers and plants are an integral part of American life, contributing a natural and beautiful element, especially in urban areas, to what is increasingly a manmade, artificial environment for this country“s citizens. Providing comfort and pleasure for many special occasions as well as for everyday living, flowers and plants work against visual pollution and, in the case of green plants, generate oxygen within their environment. The flowers and plants to which this chapter refers are cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants. These flowers and plants are produced by many individual producers throughout the United States and in foreign countries. These products move in interstate and foreign commerce, and those that do not move in such channels of commerce directly burden or affect interstate commerce of these products. The maintenance and expansion of existing markets and the development of new or improved markets and uses are vital to the welfare of flower and plant producers, brokers, wholesalers, and retailers throughout the Nation. The floral industry within the United States is comprised mainly of small- and medium-sized businesses. The producers are primarily agriculturally-oriented companies rather than promotion-oriented companies. The development and implementation of coordinated programs of research and promotion necessary for the maintenance of markets and the development of new markets have been inadequate. Without cooperative action in providing for and financing such programs, individual flower and plant producers, wholesalers, and retailers are unable to implement programs of research, consumer and producer information, and promotion necessary to maintain and improve markets for these products. It is widely recognized that it is in the public interest to provide an adequate, steady supply of fresh flowers and plants to the consumers of the Nation. The American consumer requires a continuing supply of quality and affordable flowers and plants as an important element in the quality of life. It is, therefore, declared to be the policy of Congress and the purpose of this chapter that it is essential and in the public interest to authorize the establishment of an orderly procedure for the development and financing, through an adequate assessment, of an effective and coordinated program of research, consumer and producer education, and promotion designed to strengthen the floral industry“s position in the marketplace and maintain, develop, and expand markets for flowers, plants, and flowering plants. Nothing in this chapter may be construed to dictate quality standards or provide for control of production or otherwise limit the right of individual flower and plant producers to produce commercial flowers and plants. Nothing in this chapter may be construed as a trade barrier to flowers and plants produced in foreign countries, and this chapter treats foreign producers equitably.
