   As used in this chapter:
  (1) The term ””Committee““ means the National Honey Nominations Committee provided for under section 4606(b) of this title.
  (2) The term ””consumer education““ means any action to provide information on the usage and care of honey or honey products.
  (3) T4DepartmentK.–The term ””Department““ means the Department of Agriculture.
  (4) The term ””exporter““ means any person who exports honey or honey products from the United States.
  (5) T4Handle.–
    (A) T4In generalK.–The term ””handle““ means to process, package, sell, transport, purchase, or in any other way place or cause to be placed in commerce, honey or a honey product.
    (B) T4InclusionK.–The term ””handle““ includes selling unprocessed honey that will be consumed or used without further processing or packaging.
    (C) T4ExclusionsK.–The term ””handle““ does not include–
      (i) the transportation of unprocessed honey by a producer to a handler;
      (ii) the transportation by a commercial carrier of honey, whether processed or unprocessed, for a handler or producer; or
      (iii) the purchase of honey or a honey product by a consumer or other end-user of the honey or honey product.
  (6) The term ””handler““ means any person who handles honey.
  (7) The term ””honey““ means the nectar and saccharine exudations of plants which are gathered, modified, and stored in the comb by honey bees.
  (8) The term ””Honey Board““ means the board provided for under section 4606(c) of this title.
  (9) T4Honey productionK.–The term ””honey production““ means all beekeeping operations related to–
    (A) managing honey bee colonies to produce honey;
    (B) harvesting honey from the colonies;
    (C) extracting honey from the honeycombs; and
    (D) preparing honey for sale for further processing.
  (10) The term ””honey products““ means products produced, in whole or part, from honey.
  (11) The term ””importer““ means any person who imports honey or honey products into the United States or acts as an agent, broker, or consignee for any person or nation that produces honey outside of the United States for sale in the United States and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such honey or honey products.
  (12) T4Industry informationK.–The term ””industry information““ means information or a program that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the honey industry, or an activity to enhance the image of honey and honey products and of the honey industry.
  (13) The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition in commerce of honey or honey products.
  (14) T4National honey marketing cooperativeK.–The term ””national honey marketing cooperative““ means a cooperative that markets its products in at least 2 of the following 4 regions of the United States, as determined by the Secretary:
    (A) The Atlantic Coast, including the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
    (B) The Mideast.
    (C) The Midwest.
    (D) The Pacific, including the States of Alaska and Hawaii.
  (15) The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
  (16) The term ””producer““ means any person who produces honey in the United States for sale in commerce.
  (17) The term ””producer-packer““ means any person who is both a producer and handler of honey.
  (18) The term ””promotion““ means any action, including paid advertising, pursuant to this chapter, to present a favorable image for honey or honey products to the public with the express intent of improving the competitive position and stimulating sales of honey or honey products.
  (19) T4Qualified national organization representing handler interestsK.–The term ””qualified national organization representing handler interests““ means an organization that the Secretary certifies as being eligible to recommend nominations for the Committee handler, handler-importer, alternate handler, and alternate handler-importer members of the Honey Board under section 4606(b) of this title.
  (20) T4Qualified national organization representing importer interestsK.–The term ””qualified national organization representing importer interests““ means an organization that the Secretary certifies as being eligible to recommend nominations for the Committee importer, handler-importer, alternate importer, and alternate handler-importer members of the Honey Board under section 4606(b) of this title.
  (21) The term ””research““ means any type of research designed to advance the image, desirability, usage, marketability, production, or quality of honey or honey products.
  (22) The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (23) The term ””State““ means any of the several States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
  (24) The term ””State association““ means that organization of beekeepers in a State which is generally recognized as representing the beekeepers of that State.
