  (a) Inspection for grade and quality; exception
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law–
    (1) All tobacco offered for importation into the United States, except tobacco described in paragraph (2), shall be inspected, insofar as practicable, for grade and quality as tobacco marketed through a warehouse in the United States is inspected for grade and quality.
    (2) Cigar tobacco and oriental tobacco (both as provided for in chapter 24 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States) offered for importation into the United States shall be accompanied by a certification by the importer, in such form as the Secretary of Agriculture may prescribe, stating the kind and type of such tobacco, and, in the case of cigar tobacco, that such tobacco will be used solely in the manufacture or production of cigars.
  (b) Establishment of grade and quality standards
     The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish grade and quality standards for the purposes of subsection (a)(1) of this section that are, insofar as practicable, the same as those applicable to tobacco marketed through a warehouse in the United States.
  (c) Certification necessary for excepted tobacco; false statements
     Any tobacco described in subsection (a)(2) of this section that is not accompanied by the certification required by that subsection shall not be permitted entry into the United States. The provisions of section 1001 of title 18 shall be applicable with respect to any certification made by an importer under such subsection.
  (d) Place of inspection; fees and charges
     The Secretary of Agriculture shall enforce the provisions of subsection (a) of this section at the point of entry of tobacco offered for importation into the United States. The Secretary shall by regulation fix and collect from the importer fees and charges for inspection under subsection (a)(1) and subsection (e) of this section which shall, as nearly as practicable, cover the costs of such services, including the administrative and supervisory costs customarily included by the Secretary in user fee calculations, and which shall be comparable to fees and charges fixed and collected for services provided in connection with tobacco produced in the United States. The fees and charges, when collected, shall be credited to the current appropriation account that incurs the cost and shall be available without fiscal year limitation to pay the expenses of the Secretary incident to providing services under subsection (a)(1) of this section, subsection (e) of this section, and subsection (f) of this section. Any fees collected, late payment penalties, and interest earned shall be credited to the account referred to in this section and may be invested by the Secretary of Agriculture in insured or fully-collateralized interest-bearing accounts or, at the discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture, by the Secretary of the Treasury in United States Government debt instruments. Fees and charges, including late payment penalties, and interest earned from the investment of such funds shall be credited to the account referred to in this section.
  (e) Tobacco pesticide residues; certification, etc., requirements
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
    (1)      (A) All flue-cured or burley tobacco offered for importation into the United States shall be accompanied by a certification by the importer, in such form as the Secretary of Agriculture shall prescribe, that the tobacco does not contain any prohibited residue of any pesticide that has been cancelled, suspended, revoked, or otherwise prohibited under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act [7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.]. Any flue-cured or burley tobacco that is not accompanied by such certification shall be inspected by the Secretary at the point of entry to determine whether that tobacco meets the pesticide residue requirements. Subsection (d) of this section shall apply with respect to fees and charges imposed to cover the costs of such inspection.
      (B) Any tobacco that is determined by the Secretary not to meet the pesticide residue requirements shall not be permitted entry into the United States.
      (C) The customs fraud provisions under section 1592 of title 19 and criminal fraud provisions under section 1001 of title 18 shall apply with respect to the certification requirement in subparagraph (A).
    (2) The Secretary shall by regulation provide for pesticide residue standards with respect to pesticides that are cancelled, suspended, revoked, or otherwise prohibited under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act [7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.], that shall apply to flue-cured and burley tobacco, whether domestically produced or imported.
    (3) The Secretary, to such extent and at such times as the Secretary determines appropriate, shall sample and test flue-cured and burley tobacco offered for importation or for sale in the United States to determine whether it conforms with the pesticide residue requirements. The Secretary shall by regulation impose fees and charges for such inspections.
    (4) If the Secretary determines, as a result of tests conducted under paragraph (3), that certain flue-cured or burley tobacco offered for importation does not meet the requirements of this subsection, then such tobacco shall not be permitted entry into the United States.
    (5)      (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), if the Secretary determines that domestically produced Flue-cured \1\N or Burley \1\ tobacco does not meet the requirements of this section, such tobacco may not be moved in commerce among the States and shall be destroyed by the Secretary.
      (B) This paragraph shall apply only to tobacco produced after December 23, 1985, that receives price support under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.) or the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.).
  (f) End users of imported tobacco; certification, identification, etc., requirements
    (1) The certification required under subsection (e)(1) of this section shall also include the identification of any and all end users of such tobacco of which the importer has knowledge. Any flue cured \2\N or burley tobacco permitted entry into the United States must be accompanied by a written identification of any and all end users of such tobacco. In cases in which the importer has no knowledge of the identity of an end user, the importer shall identify any and all purchasers to whom the importer expects to transfer such imported tobacco. The importer shall file with the Department of Agriculture an amended statement if, at any time after the time of entry of such tobacco imports, the importer has knowledge of any additional purchaser or end user. In those cases in which the importer has not identified all end users of such imported tobacco, the Secretary of Agriculture shall take all steps available to ascertain the identity of any and all such end users, including requesting such information from purchasers of such imported tobacco. Domestic purchasers of imported tobacco shall be required to supply any relevant information to the Department of Agriculture upon demand under this subsection.
    (2) The Secretary shall provide to the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, and the House Committee on Agriculture, on or before April 1, 1986, a report on the implementation of this authority to identify each end user and purchaser of imported tobacco. Such report shall identify the end users and purchasers of imported tobacco and the quantity, in pounds, bought by such end user or purchaser, as well as all steps taken by the Department of Agriculture to ascertain such identities. The Secretary shall provide an additional report, beginning November 15, 1986, and annual reports thereafter, on the implementation of this authority.
    (3) As used in this subsection, the term ””end user of imported tobacco““ means–
      (A) a domestic manufacturer of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
      (B) an entity that mixes, blends, processes, alters in any manner, or stores, imported tobacco for export; and
      (C) any other individual that the Secretary may identify as making use of imported tobacco for the production of tobacco products.
    (4) Subsection (d) of this section shall apply with respect to fees and charges imposed to cover the costs of such end user identification, certification, and reporting activities.
