  (a) Findings
     Congress finds that–
    (1) United States producers of agricultural products are some of the most productive and efficient producers of agricultural products in the world;
    (2) continued growth and expansion of markets for United States agricultural exports is crucial to the continued development and economic well-being of rural areas of the United States and the agricultural sector of the United States economy;
    (3) in recent years, United States agricultural exports have steadily increased, surpassing $54,000,000,000 in value in 1995;
    (4) as United States agricultural producers move toward a market-oriented system in which planting and other decisions by producers are driven by national and international market signals, developing new and expanding agricultural export markets is vital to maintaining a vibrant and healthy agricultural sector and rural economy; and
    (5) a United States agricultural export excellence award will increase United States agricultural exports by–
      (A) identifying efforts of United States entities to develop and expand markets for United States agricultural exports through the development of new products and services and through the use of innovative marketing techniques;
      (B) recognizing achievements of those who have exhibited or supported entrepreneurial efforts to expand and create new markets for United States agricultural exports or increase the volume or value of United States agricultural exports; and
      (C) disseminating information on successful methods used to develop and expand markets for United States agricultural exports.
  (b) Establishment
     There is established the Edward R. Madigan United States Agricultural Export Excellence Award, which shall be evidenced by a medal bearing the inscription ””Edward R. Madigan United States Agricultural Export Excellence Award““. The medal shall be of such design and materials and bear such additional inscriptions as the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the ””Secretary““) may prescribe.
  (c) Selection of recipient
     The President or the Secretary (on the basis of recommendations received from the board established under subsection (h) of this section) shall periodically provide the award to companies and other entities that in the judgment of the President or the Secretary substantially encourage entrepreneurial efforts in the food and agriculture sector for advancing United States agricultural exports.
  (d) Presentation of award
     The presentation of the award shall be made by the President or the Secretary with such ceremonies as the President or the Secretary considers proper.
  (e) Publication of award
     An entity to which an award is made under this section may publicize the receipt of the award by the entity and use the award in advertising of the entity.
  (f) Categories for which award may be given
     Separate awards shall be made to qualifying entities in each of the following categories:
    (1) Development of new products or services for agricultural export markets.
    (2) Development of new agricultural export markets.
    (3) Creative marketing of products or services in agricultural export markets.
  (g) Criteria for qualification
     An entity may qualify for an award under this section only if the entity–
    (1)      (A) applies to the board established under subsection (h) of this section in writing for the award; or
      (B) is recommended for the award by a Governor of a State;
    (2)      (A) has exhibited significant entrepreneurial effort to create new markets for United States agricultural exports or increase United States agricultural exports; or
      (B) has provided significant assistance to others in an effort to create new markets for United States agricultural exports or increase United States agricultural exports;
    (3) has not received another award in the same category under subsection (f) of this section during the preceding 5-year period; and
    (4) meets such other requirements and specifications as the Secretary determines are appropriate to achieve the objectives of this section.
  (h) Board
    (1) Selection
       The Secretary shall appoint a board of evaluators, consisting of at least 5 individuals from the private sector selected for their knowledge and experience in exporting United States agricultural products.
    (2) Meetings
       The board shall meet at least once annually to review and evaluate all applicants and entities recommended by States under subsection (g)(1) of this section.
    (3) Recommendations of board
       The board shall report its recommendations concerning the making of the award to the Secretary.
    (4) Term
       Each member of the board may serve a term of not to exceed 3 years.
      (i) Funding
         The Secretary may seek and accept gifts from public and private sources to carry out this section.
