   As used in this chapter–
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Pecan Marketing Board established in section 6005(b) of this title.
  (2) Commerce
     The term ””commerce““ means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
  (3) Conflict of interest
     The term ””conflict of interest““ means a situation in which a member has a direct or indirect financial interest in a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other business entity dealing directly or indirectly with the Board.
  (4) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means information and programs that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of pecans.
  (5) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the Department of Agriculture.
  (6) District
     The term ””district““ means a geographical area of the United States, as determined by the Board and approved by the Secretary, in which there is produced approximately one-fourth of the volume of pecans produced in the United States.
  (7) First handler
     The term ””first handler““ means the first person who buys or takes possession of pecans from a grower for marketing. If a grower markets pecans directly to consumers, such grower shall be considered the first handler with respect to pecans grown by such grower.
  (8) Grower
     The term ””grower““ means any person engaged in the production and sale of pecans in the United States who owns, or who shares the ownership and risk of loss of, such pecans.
  (9) Grower-sheller
     The term ””grower-sheller““ means a person who–
    (A) shells pecans, or has pecans shelled for such person, in the United States; and
    (B) during the immediately previous year, grew 50 percent or more of the pecans such person shelled or had shelled for such person.
  (10) Handle
     The term ””handle““ means receipt of in-shell pecans by a sheller or first handler, including pecans produced by such sheller or first handler.
  (11) Importer
     The term ””importer““ means any person who imports pecans from outside of the United States for sale in the United States.
  (12) Industry information
     The term ””industry information““ means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets and marketing strategies, increased efficiency, and activities to enhance the image of the pecan industry.
  (13) In-shell pecan
     The term ””in-shell pecan““ means a pecan that has a shell that has not been removed.
  (14) To market
     The term ””to market““ means to sell or offer to dispose of pecans in any channel of commerce.
  (15) Member
     The term ””member““ means a member of the Board.
  (16) Pecan
     The term ””pecan““ means the nut of the pecan tree carya illinoensis.
  (17) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
  (18) Plan
     The term ””plan““ means a plan issued under section 6003 of this title.
  (19) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action taken by the Board, pursuant to this chapter, to present a favorable image of pecans to the public with the express intent of improving the competitive position of pecans in the marketplace and stimulating sales of pecans, including paid advertising.
  (20) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, usage, marketability, production, product development, or quality of pecans.
  (21) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (22) Shell
     The term ””shell““ means to remove the shell from an in-shell pecan.
  (23) Shelled pecan
     The term ””shelled pecan““ means a pecan kernel, or portion of a kernel, after the pecan shell has been removed.
  (24) Sheller
     The term ””sheller““ means any person who–
    (A) shells pecans or has pecans shelled for the account of such person; and
    (B) during the immediately previous year, purchased more than 50 percent of the pecans such person shelled or had shelled for such account.
  (25) State
     The term ””State““ means any of the several States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
  (26) United States
     The term ””United States““ means collectively the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
