   As used in this chapter:
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the United Soybean Board established under section 6304(b) of this title.
  (2) Commerce
     The term ””commerce““ includes interstate, foreign, and intrastate commerce.
  (3) Committee
     The term ””Committee““ means the Soybean Program Coordinating Committee established under section 6304(g) of this title.
  (4) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of soybeans or soybean products.
  (5) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the Department of Agriculture.
  (6) First purchaser
     The term ””first purchaser““ means–
    (A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), any person buying or otherwise acquiring from a producer soybeans produced by such producer; or
    (B) the Commodity Credit Corporation, in any case in which soybeans are pledged as collateral for a loan issued under any price support loan program administered by the Commodity Credit Corporation.
  (7) Industry information
     The term ””industry information““ means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the soybean industry, and activities to enhance the image of the soybean industry.
  (8) Marketing
     The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition of soybeans or soybean products in any channel of commerce.
  (9) Net market price
     The term ””net market price““ means–
    (A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), the sales price or other value received by a producer for soybeans after adjustments for any premium or discount based on grading or quality factors, as determined by the Secretary; or
    (B) for soybeans pledged as collateral for a loan issued under any price support loan program administered by the Commodity Credit Corporation, the principal amount of the loan.
  (10) Order
     The term ””order““ means an order issued under section 6303 of this title.
  (11) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
  (12) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means any person engaged in the growing of soybeans in the United States who owns, or who shares the ownership and risk of loss of, such soybeans.
  (13) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action, including paid advertising, technical assistance, and trade servicing activities, to enhance the image or desirability of soybeans or soybean products in domestic and foreign markets, and any activity designed to communicate to consumers, importers, processors, wholesalers, retailers, government officials, or others information relating to the positive attributes of soybeans or soybean products or the benefits of importation, use, or distribution of soybeans and soybean products.
  (14) Qualified State soybean board
     The term ””qualified State soybean board““ means a State soybean promotion entity that is authorized by State law. If no such entity exists in a State, the term ””qualified State soybean board““ means a soybean producer-governed entity–
    (A) that is organized and operating within a State;
    (B) that receives voluntary contributions and conducts soybean promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information programs; and
    (C) that meets criteria established by the Board as approved by the Secretary relating to the qualifications of such entity to perform duties under the order and is recognized by the Board as the soybean promotion and research entity within the State.
  (15) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of study to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, product development, quality, or functional or nutritional value of soybeans or soybean products, including any research activity designed to identify and analyze barriers to export sales of soybeans and soybean products.
  (16) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (17) Soybean products
     The term ””soybean products““ means products produced in whole or in part from soybeans or soybean by-products.
  (18) Soybeans
     The term ””soybeans““ means all varieties of Glycine max or Glycine soya.
  (19) State
     The terms ””State““ and ””United States““ consist of the 50 States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
