  (a) Misuse of label
     Any person who knowingly sells or labels a product as organic, except in accordance with this chapter, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $10,000.
  (b) False statement
     Any person who makes a false statement under this chapter to the Secretary, a governing State official, or a certifying agent shall be subject to the provisions of section 1001 of title 18.
  (c) Ineligibility
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), any person who–
      (A) makes a false statement;
      (B) attempts to have a label indicating that an agricultural product is organically produced affixed to such product that such person knows, or should have reason to know, to have been produced or handled in a manner that is not in accordance with this chapter; or
      (C) otherwise violates the purposes of the applicable organic certification program as determined by the Secretary;
       after notice and an opportunity to be heard, shall not be eligible, for a period of 5 years from the date of such occurrence, to receive certification under this chapter with respect to any farm or handling operation in which such person has an interest.
    (2) Waiver
       Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may reduce or eliminate the period of ineligibility referred to in such paragraph if the Secretary determines that such modification or waiver is in the best interests of the applicable organic certification program established under this chapter.
  (d) Reporting of violations
     A certifying agent shall immediately report any violations of this chapter to the Secretary or the governing State official (if applicable).
  (e) Violations by certifying agent
     A certifying agent that is a private person that violates the provisions of this chapter or that falsely or negligently certifies any farming or handling operation that does not meet the terms and conditions of the applicable organic certification program as an organic operation, as determined by the Secretary or the governing State official (if applicable) shall, after notice and an opportunity to be heard–
    (1) lose its accreditation as a certifying agent under this chapter; and
    (2) be ineligible to be accredited as a certifying agent under this chapter for a period of not less than 3 years subsequent to the date of such determination.
  (f) Effect of other laws
     Nothing in this chapter shall alter the authority of the Secretary under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.), and the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq.) concerning meat, poultry and egg products, nor any of the authorities of the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug \1\N and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), nor the authority of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide \1\ and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.).
