   In this subchapter (unless the context otherwise requires):
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the National Canola and Rapeseed Board established under section 7444(b) of this title.
  (2) Canola; rapeseed
     The terms ””canola““ and ””rapeseed““ mean any brassica plant grown in the United States for the production of an oilseed, the oil of which is used for a food or nonfood use.
  (3) Canola or rapeseed product
     The term ””canola or rapeseed product““ means a product produced, in whole or in part, from canola or rapeseed.
  (4) Commerce
     The term ””commerce““ includes interstate, foreign, and intrastate commerce.
  (5) Conflict of interest
     The term ””conflict of interest““ means a situation in which a member of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other business entity dealing directly or indirectly with the Board.
  (6) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products.
  (7) Department
     The term ””Department““ means the Department of Agriculture.
  (8) First purchaser
     The term ””first purchaser““ means–
    (A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), a person who buys or otherwise acquires canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products produced by a producer; or
    (B) the Commodity Credit Corporation, in a case in which canola or rapeseed is forfeited to the Commodity Credit Corporation as collateral for a loan issued under a price support loan program administered by the Commodity Credit Corporation.
  (9) Industry information
     The term ””industry information““ means information or a program that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the canola and rapeseed industry, or an activity to enhance the image of the canola or rapeseed industry.
  (10) Industry member
     The term ””industry member““ means a member of the canola and rapeseed industry who represents–
    (A) manufacturers of canola or rapeseed products; or
    (B) persons who commercially buy or sell canola or rapeseed.
  (11) Marketing
     The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products in a channel of commerce.
  (12) Order
     The term ””order““ means an order issued under section 7443 of this title.
  (13) Person
     The term ””person““ means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
  (14) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means a person engaged in the growing of canola or rapeseed in the United States who owns, or who shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the canola or rapeseed.
  (15) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means an action, including paid advertising, technical assistance, or a trade servicing activity, to enhance the image or desirability of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products in domestic and foreign markets, or an activity designed to communicate to consumers, processors, wholesalers, retailers, government officials, or other persons information relating to the positive attributes of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products or the benefits of use or distribution of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products.
  (16) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of test, study, or analysis to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, product development, quality, or functional or nutritional value of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products, including research activity designed to identify and analyze barriers to export sales of canola or rapeseed produced in the United States.
  (17) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (18) State
     The term ””State““ means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
  (19) United States
     The term ””United States““ means collectively the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
