   In this subchapter (unless the context otherwise requires):
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the National Kiwifruit Board established under section 7464 of this title.
  (2) Consumer information
     The term ””consumer information““ means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of kiwifruit.
  (3) Exporter
     The term ””exporter““ means any person from outside the United States who exports kiwifruit into the United States.
  (4) Handler
     The term ””handler““ means any person, excluding a common carrier, engaged in the business of buying and selling, packing, marketing, or distributing kiwifruit as specified in the order.
  (5) Importer
     The term ””importer““ means any person who imports kiwifruit into the United States.
  (6) Kiwifruit
     The term ””kiwifruit““ means all varieties of fresh kiwifruit grown in or imported into the United States.
  (7) Marketing
     The term ””marketing““ means the sale or other disposition of kiwifruit into interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce by buying, marketing, distribution, or otherwise placing kiwifruit into commerce.
  (8) Order
     The term ””order““ means a kiwifruit research, promotion, and consumer information order issued by the Secretary under section 7463 of this title.
  (9) Person
     The term ””person““ means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or other legal entity.
  (10) Processing
     The term ””processing““ means canning, fermenting, distilling, extracting, preserving, grinding, crushing, or in any manner changing the form of kiwifruit for the purpose of preparing the kiwifruit for market or marketing the kiwifruit.
  (11) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means any person who grows kiwifruit in the United States for sale in commerce.
  (12) Promotion
     The term ””promotion““ means any action taken under this subchapter (including paid advertising) to present a favorable image of kiwifruit to the general public for the purpose of improving the competitive position of kiwifruit and stimulating the sale of kiwifruit.
  (13) Research
     The term ””research““ means any type of research relating to the use, nutritional value, and marketing of kiwifruit conducted for the purpose of advancing the image, desirability, marketability, or quality of kiwifruit.
  (14) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (15) United States
     The term ””United States““ means the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
