  (a) Review of Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service
    (1) Peer review of research grants
       The Secretary shall establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered, on a competitive basis, by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service of the Department.
    (2) Merit review of extension and education grants
      (A) Establishment of procedures
         The Secretary shall establish procedures that provide for merit review of each agricultural extension or education grant administered, on a competitive basis, by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service.
      (B) Consultation with Advisory Board
         The Secretary shall consult with the Advisory Board in establishing the merit review procedures.
  (b) Advisory Board review
     On an annual basis, the Advisory Board shall review–
    (1) the relevance to the priorities established under section 7612(a) of this title of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department; and
    (2) the adequacy of the funding.
  (c) Requests for proposals
    (1) Review results
       As soon as practicable after the review is conducted under subsection (b) of this section for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall consider the results of the review when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department.
    (2) Input
       In formulating a request for proposals described in paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year“s request for proposals.
  (d) Scientific peer review of agricultural research
    (1) Peer review procedures
       The Secretary shall establish procedures that ensure scientific peer review of all research activities conducted by the Department.
    (2) Review panel required
       As part of the procedures established under paragraph (1), a review panel shall verify, at least once every 5 years, that each research activity of the Department and research conducted under each research program of the Department has scientific merit and relevance.
    (3) Mission area
       If the research activity or program to be reviewed is included in the research, educational, and economics mission area of the Department, the review panel shall consider–
      (A) the scientific merit and relevance of the activity or research in light of the priorities established pursuant to section 7612 of this title; and
      (B) the national or multistate significance of the activity or research.
    (4) Composition of review panel
      (A) In general
         A review panel shall be composed of individuals with scientific expertise, a majority of whom are not employees of the agency whose research is being reviewed.
      (B) Scientists from colleges and universities
         To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall use scientists from colleges and universities to serve on the review panels.
    (5) Submission of results
       The results of the panel reviews shall be submitted to the Advisory Board.
  (e) Merit review
    (1) 1862 and 1890 Institutions
       Effective October 1, 1999, to be eligible to obtain agricultural research or extension funds from the Secretary for an activity, each 1862 Institution and 1890 Institution shall–
      (A) establish a process for merit review of the activity; and
      (B) review the activity in accordance with the process.
    (2) 1994 Institutions
       Effective October 1, 1999, to be eligible to obtain agricultural extension funds from the Secretary for an activity, each 1994 Institution shall–
      (A) establish a process for merit review of the activity; and
      (B) review the activity in accordance with the process.
