  (a) In general
     There is established in the Department of Agriculture the Senior Scientific Research Service (referred to in this section as the ””Service““).
  (b) Members
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraphs (2) through (4), the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Service.
    (2) Qualifications
       To be eligible for appointment to the Service, an individual shall–
      (A) have conducted outstanding research in the field of agriculture or forestry;
      (B) have earned a doctoral level degree at an institution of higher education (as defined in section 1001 of title 20); and
      (C) meet qualification standards prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management for appointment to a position at level GS–15 of the General Schedule.
    (3) Number
       Not more than 100 individuals may serve as members of the Service at any 1 time.
    (4) Other requirements
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraph (B) and subsection (d)(2) of this section, the Secretary may appoint and employ a member of the Service without regard to–
        (i) the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service;
        (ii) the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 5 relating to retention preference;
        (iii) the provisions of chapter 43 of title 5 relating to performance appraisal and performance actions;
        (iv) the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates; and
        (v) the provisions of chapter 75 of title 5 relating to adverse actions.
      (B) Exception
         A member of the Service appointed and employed by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall have the same right of appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board and the same right to file a complaint with the Office of Special Counsel as an employee appointed to a position at level GS–15 of the General Schedule.
  (c) Performance appraisal system
     The Secretary shall develop a performance appraisal system for members of the Service that is designed to–
    (1) provide for the systematic appraisal of the employment performance of the members; and
    (2) encourage excellence in employment performance by the members.
  (d) Compensation
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall determine the compensation of members of the Service.
    (2) Limitations
       The rate of pay for a member of the Service shall–
      (A) not be less than the minimum rate payable for a position at level GS–15 of the General Schedule; and
      (B) not be more than the rate payable for a position at level I of the Executive Schedule, unless the rate is approved by the President under section 5377(d)(2) of title 5.
  (e) Retirement contributions
    (1) In general
       On the request of a member of the Service who was an employee of an institution of higher education (as defined in section 1001 of title 20) immediately prior to appointment as a member of the Service and who retains the right to continue to make contributions to the retirement system of the institution, the Secretary may contribute an amount not to exceed 10 percent of the basic pay of the member to the retirement system of the institution on behalf of the member.
    (2) Federal retirement system
      (A) In general
         Subject to subparagraph (B), a member for whom a contribution is made under paragraph (1) shall not, as a result of serving as a member of the Service, be covered by, or earn service credit under, chapter 83 or 84 of title 5.
      (B) Annual leave
         Service of a member of the Service described in subparagraph (A) shall be creditable for determining years of service under section 6303(a) of title 5.
  (f) Involuntary separation
    (1) In general
       Subject to paragraph (2) and notwithstanding the provisions of title 5 governing appointment in the competitive service, in the case of an individual who is separated from the Service involuntarily and without cause–
      (A) the Secretary may appoint the individual to a position in the competitive civil service at level GS–15 of the General Schedule; and
      (B) the appointment shall be a career appointment.
    (2) Excepted civil service
       In the case of an individual described in paragraph (1) who immediately prior to appointment as a member of the Service was not a career appointee in the civil service or the Senior Executive Service, the appointment of the individual under paragraph (1)–
      (A) shall be to the excepted civil service; and
      (B) may not exceed a period of 2 years.
