  (a) to (e) Repealed. Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 438(a)(3), June 20, 2000, 114 Stat. 454
  (f) Authorization of appropriations; fees, late payment penalties, and accrued interest
    (1) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. Unless otherwise specifically authorized or provided for in appropriations Acts, no part of such sums shall be used to pay the cost or value of property injured or destroyed.
    (2) The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to prescribe and collect fees to recover the costs of providing for the inspection of plants and plant products offered for export or transiting the United States and certifying to shippers and interested parties as to the freedom of such plants and plant products from plant pests according to the phytosanitary requirements of the foreign countries to which such plants and plant products may be exported, or to the freedom from exposure to plant pests while in transit through the United States. Any person for whom such an activity is performed shall be liable for payment of fees assessed. Upon failure to pay such fees when due, the Secretary of Agriculture shall assess a late payment penalty, and such overdue fees shall accrue interest, as required by section 3717 of title 31. All fees, late payment penalties, and accrued interest collected shall be credited to such accounts that incur the costs and shall remain available until expended without fiscal year limitation. The Secretary of Agriculture shall have a lien for the fees, any late payment penalty, and any accrued interest assessed against the plant or plant product for which services have been provided. In the case of any person who fails to make payment when due, the Secretary of Agriculture shall also have a lien against any plant or plant product thereafter attempted to be exported by such person. The Secretary of Agriculture may, in case of nonpayment of the fees, late payment penalty, or accrued interest, after giving reasonable notice of default to the person liable for payment of such assessments, sell at public sale after reasonable public notice, or otherwise dispose of, any such plant or plant product upon which the Secretary of Agriculture has a lien pursuant to this section. If the sale proceeds exceed the fees due, any late payment penalty assessed, any accrued interest and the expenses of the sale, the excess shall be paid, in accordance with regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, to the owner of the plant or plant product sold upon the owner making application therefore with proof of ownership, within six months after such sale, and otherwise the excess shall be credited to accounts that incur the costs and shall remain available until expended. The Secretary of Agriculture shall, pursuant to regulations as prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, suspend performance of services to persons who have failed to pay such fees, late payment penalty and accrued interest.
