   In this subchapter:
  (1) Base acres for peanuts
     The term ””base acres for peanuts““ means the number of acres assigned to a farm by historic peanut producers pursuant to section 7952(b) of this title.
  (2) Counter-cyclical payment
     The term ””counter-cyclical payment““ means a payment made under section 7954 of this title.
  (3) Effective price
     The term ””effective price““ means the price calculated by the Secretary under section 7954 of this title for peanuts to determine whether counter-cyclical payments are required to be made under that section for a crop year.
  (4) Direct payment
     The term ””direct payment““ means a payment made under section 7953 of this title.
  (5) Historic peanut producer
     The term ””historic peanut producer““ means a producer on a farm in the United States that produced or was prevented from planting peanuts during any or all of the 1998 through 2001 crop years.
  (6) Payment acres
     The term ””payment acres““ means–
    (A) for the 2002 crop of peanuts, 85 percent of the average acreage determined under section 7952(a)(2) of this title for an historic peanut producer; and
    (B) for the 2003 through 2007 crops of peanuts, 85 percent of the base acres for peanuts assigned to a farm under section 7952(b) of this title.
  (7) Payment yield
     The term ””payment yield““ means the yield assigned to a farm by historic peanut producers pursuant to section 7952(b) of this title.
  (8) Producer
     The term ””producer““ means an owner, operator, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper that shares in the risk of producing a crop on a farm and is entitled to share in the crop available for marketing from the farm, or would have shared had the crop been produced. In determining whether a grower of hybrid seed is a producer, the Secretary shall not take into consideration the existence of a hybrid seed contract and shall ensure that program requirements do not adversely affect the ability of the grower to receive a payment under this subchapter.
  (9) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (10) State
     The term ””State““ means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
  (11) Target price
     The term ””target price““ means the price per ton of peanuts used to determine the payment rate for counter-cyclical payments.
  (12) United States
     The term ””United States““, when used in a geographical sense, means all of the States.
