   In this chapter:
  (1) Animal
     The term ””animal““ means any member of the animal kingdom (except a human).
  (2) Article
     The term ””article““ means any pest or disease or any material or tangible object that could harbor a pest or disease.
  (3) Disease
     The term ””disease““ has the meaning given the term by the Secretary.
  (4) Enter
     The term ””enter““ means to move into the commerce of the United States.
  (5) Export
     The term ””export““ means to move from a place within the territorial limits of the United States to a place outside the territorial limits of the United States.
  (6) Facility
     The term ””facility““ means any structure.
  (7) Import
     The term ””import““ means to move from a place outside the territorial limits of the United States to a place within the territorial limits of the United States.
  (8) Indian tribe
     The term ””Indian tribe““ has the meaning given the term in section 450b of title 25.
  (9) Interstate commerce
     The term ””interstate commerce““ means trade, traffic, or other commerce–
    (A) between a place in a State and a place in another State, or between places within the same State but through any place outside that State; or
    (B) within the District of Columbia or any territory or possession of the United States.
  (10) Livestock
     The term ””livestock““ means all farm-raised animals.
  (11) Means of conveyance
     The term ””means of conveyance““ means any personal property used for or intended for use for the movement of any other personal property.
  (12) Move
     The term ””move““ means–
    (A) to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport;
    (B) to aid, abet, cause, or induce carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting;
    (C) to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport;
    (D) to receive in order to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport;
    (E) to release into the environment; or
    (F) to allow any of the activities described in this paragraph.
  (13) Pest
     The term ””pest““ means any of the following that can directly or indirectly injure, cause damage to, or cause disease in livestock:
    (A) A protozoan.
    (B) A plant.
    (C) A bacteria.
    (D) A fungus.
    (E) A virus or viroid.
    (F) An infectious agent or other pathogen.
    (G) An arthropod.
    (H) A parasite.
    (I) A prion.
    (J) A vector.
    (K) Any organism similar to or allied with any of the organisms described in this paragraph.
  (14) Secretary
     The term ””Secretary““ means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (15) State
     The term ””State““ means any of the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any territory or possession of the United States.
  (16) This chapter
     Except when used in this section, the term ””this chapter““ includes any regulation or order issued by the Secretary under the authority of this chapter.
  (17) United States
     The term ””United States““ means all of the States.
