  (a) Collection of information
    (1) In general
       The Secretary may gather and compile information and conduct any inspection or investigation that the Secretary considers to be necessary for the administration or enforcement of this chapter.
    (2) Subpoenas
      (A) In general
         The Secretary shall have power to issue a subpoena to compel the attendance and testimony of any witness and the production of any documentary evidence relating to the administration or enforcement of this chapter or any matter under investigation in connection with this chapter.
      (B) Location of production
         The attendance of any witness and production of documentary evidence relevant to the inquiry may be required from any place in the United States.
      (C) Enforcement
        (i) In general
           In case of disobedience to a subpoena by any person, the Secretary may request the Attorney General to invoke the aid of any court of the United States within the jurisdiction in which the investigation is conducted, or where the person resides, is found, transacts business, is licensed to do business, or is incorporated, to require the attendance and testimony of any witness and the production of documentary evidence.
        (ii) Noncompliance
           In case of a refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any person, a court may order the person to appear before the Secretary and give evidence concerning the matter in question or to produce documentary evidence.
        (iii) Contempt
           Any failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as contempt of the court.
      (D) Compensation
        (i) Witnesses
           A witness summoned by the Secretary under this chapter shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid to a witness in a court of the United States.
        (ii) Depositions
           A witness whose deposition is taken, and the person taking the deposition, shall be entitled to the same fees that are paid for similar services in a court of the United States.
      (E) Procedures
        (i) Publication
           The Secretary shall publish procedures for the issuance of subpoenas under this section.
        (ii) Review
           The procedures shall include a requirement that subpoenas be reviewed for legal sufficiency and, to be effective, be signed by the Secretary.
        (iii) Delegation
           If the authority to sign a subpoena is delegated to an agency other than the Office of Administrative Law Judges, the agency receiving the delegation shall seek review of the subpoena for legal sufficiency outside that agency.
  (b) Authority of Attorney General
     The Attorney General may–
    (1) prosecute, in the name of the United States, all criminal violations of this chapter that are referred to the Attorney General by the Secretary or are brought to the notice of the Attorney General by any person;
    (2) bring an action to enjoin the violation of or to compel compliance with this chapter, or to enjoin any interference by any person with the Secretary in carrying out this chapter, in any case in which the Secretary has reason to believe that the person has violated, or is about to violate this chapter or has interfered, or is about to interfere, with the actions of the Secretary; or
    (3) bring an action for the recovery of any unpaid civil penalty, funds under a reimbursable agreement, late payment penalty, or interest assessed under this chapter.
  (c) Court jurisdiction
    (1) In general
       The United States district courts, the District Court of Guam, the District Court of the Northern Mariana Islands, the District Court of the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and the United States courts of the other territories and possessions are vested with jurisdiction in all cases arising under this chapter.
    (2) Venue
       Any action arising under this chapter may be brought, and process may be served, in the judicial district where a violation or interference occurred or is about to occur, or where the person charged with the violation, interference, impending violation, impending interference, or failure to pay resides, is found, transacts business, is licensed to do business, or is incorporated.
    (3) Exception
       Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply to sections 8309(c) and 8313(b) of this title.
