  (a)    (1) The President may designate no more than 4 positions of importance and responsibility that shall be held by officers who–
      (A) while so serving, shall have the grade of vice admiral, with the pay and allowances of that grade; and
      (B) shall perform such duties as the Commandant may prescribe.
    (2) The President may appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and reappoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to any such position an officer of the Coast Guard who is serving on active duty above the grade of captain. The Commandant shall make recommendations for such appointments.
    (3)      (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), one of the vice admirals designated under paragraph (1) must have at least 10 years experience in vessel inspection, marine casualty investigations, mariner licensing, or an equivalent technical expertise in the design and construction of commercial vessels, with at least 4 years of leadership experience at a staff or unit carrying out marine safety functions and shall serve as the principal advisor to the Commandant on these issues.
      (B) The requirements of subparagraph (A) do not apply to such vice admiral if the subordinate officer serving in the grade of rear admiral with responsibilities for marine safety, security, and stewardship possesses that experience.
  (b)    (1) The appointment and the grade of vice admiral shall be effective on the date the officer assumes that duty and, except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection or in section 51(d) of this title, shall terminate on the date the officer is detached from that duty.
    (2) An officer who is appointed to a position designated under subsection (a) shall continue to hold the grade of vice admiral–
      (A) while under orders transferring the officer to another position designated under subsection (a), beginning on the date the officer is detached from that duty and terminating on the date before the day the officer assumes the subsequent duty, but not for more than 60 days;
      (B) while hospitalized, beginning on the day of the hospitalization and ending on the day the officer is discharged from the hospital, but not for more than 180 days; and
      (C) while awaiting retirement, beginning on the date the officer is detached from duty and ending on the day before the officer“s retirement, but not for more than 60 days.
  (c)    (1) An appointment of an officer under subsection (a) does not vacate the permanent grade held by the officer.
    (2) An officer serving in a grade above rear admiral who holds the permanent grade of rear admiral (lower half) shall be considered for promotion to the permanent grade of rear admiral as if the officer was serving in the officer“s permanent grade.
  (d) Whenever a vacancy occurs in a position designated under subsection (a), the Commandant shall inform the President of the qualifications needed by an officer serving in that position or office to carry out effectively the duties and responsibilities of that position or office.
