  (a) T4In GeneralK.–The Commandant shall appoint in each Coast Guard District a District Ombudsman to serve as a liaison between ports, terminal operators, shipowners, and labor representatives and the Coast Guard.
  (b) T4PurposeK.–The purpose of the District Ombudsman shall be the following:
    (1) To support the operations of the Coast Guard in each port in the District for which the District Ombudsman is appointed.
    (2) To improve communications between and among port stakeholders including, port and terminal operators, ship owners, labor representatives, and the Coast Guard.
    (3) To seek to resolve disputes between the Coast Guard and all petitioners regarding requirements imposed or services provided by the Coast Guard.
  (c) T4Functions.–
    (1) T4ComplaintsK.–The District Ombudsman may examine complaints brought to the attention of the District Ombudsman by a petitioner operating in a port or by Coast Guard personnel.
    (2) T4Guidelines for disputes.–
      (A) T4In generalK.–The District Ombudsman shall develop guidelines regarding the types of disputes with respect to which the District Ombudsman will provide assistance.
      (B) T4LimitationK.–The District Ombudsman shall not provide assistance with respect to a dispute unless it involves the impact of Coast Guard requirements on port business and the flow of commerce.
      (C) T4PriorityK.–In providing such assistance, the District Ombudsman shall give priority to complaints brought by petitioners who believe they will suffer a significant hardship as the result of implementing a Coast Guard requirement or being denied a Coast Guard service.
    (3) T4ConsultationK.–The District Ombudsman may consult with any Coast Guard personnel who can aid in the investigation of a complaint.
    (4) T4Access to informationK.–The District Ombudsman shall have access to any Coast Guard document, including any record or report, that will aid the District Ombudsman in obtaining the information needed to conduct an investigation of a complaint.
    (5) T4ReportsK.–At the conclusion of an investigation, the District Ombudsman shall submit a report on the findings and recommendations of the District Ombudsman, to the Commander of the District in which the petitioner who brought the complaint is located or operating.
    (6) T4DeadlineK.–The District Ombudsman shall seek to resolve each complaint brought in accordance with the guidelines–
      (A) in a timely fashion; and
      (B) not later than 4 months after the complaint is officially accepted by the District Ombudsman.
  (d) T4AppointmentK.–The Commandant shall appoint as the District Ombudsman an individual who has experience in port and transportation systems and knowledge of port operations or of maritime commerce (or both).
  (e) T4Annual ReportsK.–The Secretary shall report annually to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the matters brought before the District Ombudsmen, including–
    (1) the number of matters brought before each District Ombudsman;
    (2) a brief summary of each such matter; and
    (3) the eventual resolution of each such matter.
