  (a) The Commandant subject to applicable regulations under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) may dispose of, with or without charge, to the Coast Guard Auxiliary, including any incorporated unit thereof, to the sea-scout service of the Boy Scouts of America, and to any public body or private organization not organized for profit having an interest therein for historical or other special reasons, such obsolete or other material as may not be needed for the Coast Guard.
  (b) The Commandant may, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, sell apparatus or equipment manufactured by or in use in the Coast Guard, which is not readily procurable in the open market. The money received from such sale shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the current appropriation from which purchase of similar apparatus or equipment is authorized.
  (c)    (1) The Commandant may–
      (A) provide for the sale of recyclable materials that the Coast Guard holds;
      (B) provide for the operation of recycling programs at Coast Guard installations; and
      (C) designate Coast Guard installations that have qualified recycling programs for the purposes of subsection (d)(2).
    (2) Recyclable materials shall be sold in accordance with section 203 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484), except that the Commandant may conduct sales of materials for which the proceeds of sale will not exceed $5,000 under regulations prescribed by the Commandant.
  (d)    (1) Proceeds from the sale of recyclable materials at a Coast Guard installation shall be credited to funds available for operations and maintenance at that installation in amounts sufficient to cover operations, maintenance, recycling equipment, and overhead costs for processing recyclable materials at the installation.
    (2) If, after funds are credited, a balance remains available to a Coast Guard installation and the installation has a qualified recycling program, not more than 50 percent of that balance may be used at the installation for projects for pollution abatement, energy conservation, and occupational safety and health activities. The cost of the project may not be greater than 50 percent of the amount permissible for a minor construction project.
    (3) The remaining balance available to a Coast Guard,\1\N installation may be transferred to the Coast Guard Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Program.
  (e) If the balance available to the Coast Guard installation under this section at the end of a fiscal year is in excess of $200,000, the amount of that excess shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating and ascribed to Coast Guard activities.
