  (a) T4EstablishmentK.–There is hereby established on the books of the Treasury an account to be known as the Coast Guard Housing Fund (in this section referred to as the ””Fund““).
  (b) T4Credits to FundK.–There shall be credited to the Fund the following:
    (1) Amounts authorized for and appropriated to that Fund.
    (2) Subject to subsection (e), any amounts that the Secretary transfers, in such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts, to that Fund from amounts authorized and appropriated to the Department of Transportation or Coast Guard for the acquisition or construction of military family housing or unaccompanied housing.
    (3) Proceeds from the conveyance or lease of property or facilities under section 685 of this title for the purpose of carrying out activities under this chapter with respect to military family and military unaccompanied housing.
    (4) Income from any activities under this chapter, including interest on loan guarantees made under section 682 of this title, income and gains realized from investments under section 684 of this title, and any return of capital invested as part of such investments.
  (c) T4Use of Amounts in FundK.–(1) In such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts and except as provided in subsection (d), the Secretary may use amounts in the Coast Guard Housing Fund to carry out activities under this chapter with respect to military family and military unaccompanied housing units, including activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of contracts entered into under the authority of this chapter.
  (2) Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain available until expended.
  (d) T4Limitation on ObligationsK.–The Secretary may not incur an obligation under a contract or other agreements entered into under this chapter in excess of the unobligated balance, at the time the contract is entered into, of the Fund required to be used to satisfy the obligation.
  (e) T4Notification Required for TransfersK.–A transfer of appropriated amounts to the Fund under subsection (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section may be made only after the end of a 30-day period beginning on the date the Secretary submits written notice of, and justification for, the transfer to the appropriate committees of Congress.
  (f) T4Limitation on Amount of Budget AuthorityK.–The total value in budget authority of all contracts and investments undertaken using the authorities provided in this chapter shall not exceed $20,000,000.
