  (a) The authorized number of officers in the Reserve in an active status is 5,000. Reserve officers on an active-duty list shall not be counted as part of the authorized number of officers in the Reserve. The actual number of Reserve officers in an active status at any time shall not exceed the authorized number unless the Secretary determines that a greater number is necessary for planned mobilization requirements, or unless the excess results directly from the operation of law.
  (b)    (1) The Secretary shall make, at least once each year, a computation to determine the number of Reserve officers in an active status authorized to be serving in each grade. The number in each grade shall be computed by applying the applicable percentage to the total number of such officers serving in an active status on the date the computation is made. The number of Reserve officers in an active status below the grade of rear admiral (lower half) shall be distributed by pay grade so as not to exceed percentages of commissioned officers authorized by section 42(b) of this title. When the actual number of Reserve officers in an active status in a particular pay grade is less than the maximum percentage authorized, the difference may be applied to the number in the next lower grade. A Reserve officer may not be reduced in rank or grade solely because of a reduction in an authorized number as provided for in this subsection, or because an excess results directly from the operation of law.
    (2) The authorized number of Reserve Officers in an active status not on active duty in the grades of rear admiral (lower half) and rear admiral is a total of two. However, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may authorize an additional number of Reserve officers not on active duty in the grades of rear admiral (lower half) and rear admiral as necessary in order to meet planned mobilization requirements.
  (c) T4Deferral of LimitationK.–If at the end of any fiscal year there is in effect a declaration of war or national emergency, the President may defer the effectiveness of any end-strength limitation with respect to that fiscal year prescribed by law for any military or civilian component of the Coast Guard Reserve, for a period not to exceed 6 months after the end of the war or termination of the national emergency.
