  (a) Rules and regulations
     Whenever the President determines that the defense, security, and general welfare of the United States requires such action, the Secretary shall issue such regulations as he deems necessary for the licensing of sales and transportation of helium in interstate commerce after extraction from helium-bearing natural gas or helium-gas mixtures. Thereafter it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or transfer helium in interstate commerce except in accordance with such regulations or pursuant to the terms of a license issued by the Secretary, or in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with the Secretary entered into pursuant to this chapter. For the purpose of this section, the term ””helium““ shall mean helium, after extraction from helium-bearing natural gas or helium-gas mixtures, in a refined or semirefined state suitable for use.
  (b) Terms; assignments; revocations
     Each license shall be issued for a specified period to be determined by the Secretary, but not exceeding five years, and may be renewed by the Secretary upon the expiration of such period. No such license shall be issued to a person if in the opinion of the Secretary the issuance of a license to such person would be inimical to the defense and security of the United States. No such license shall be assigned or otherwise transferred directly or indirectly except with the consent or approval of the Secretary in writing. Any such license may be revoked for any material false statement in the application for license, or for violation or a failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this chapter, the regulations issued by the Secretary pursuant thereto or the terms of the license.
  (c) Purpose
     In issuing licenses under this section, the Secretary shall impose such regulations and terms of licenses as will permit him effectively to promote the common defense and security as well as the general welfare of the United States. The licensing authority herein granted shall be used solely for the purpose of preventing the transportation or sale of helium for end uses determined by the Secretary to be nonessential or wasteful, and any determination that any end use is nonessential or wasteful shall be published in the form of general regulations applicable to all transportation or sales of helium.
  (d) Suspension; reacquisition of supplies
     Whenever Congress or the President declares that a war or national emergency exists, the Secretary is authorized to suspend any license granted under this chapter if in his judgment such suspension is necessary to the defense and security of the United States, and he is further authorized to take such steps as may be necessary to recapture or reacquire supplies of helium.
