  (a) Program required
     The President, acting through the Committee on Nonproliferation established under section 2352 of this title, shall develop a comprehensive program for carrying out this chapter.
  (b) Content of program
     The program set forth in the report shall include specific plans as follows:
    (1) Plans for countering proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related materials and technologies.
    (2) Plans for training and equipping Federal, State, and local officials for managing a crisis involving a use or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction, including the consequences of the use of such a weapon.
    (3) Plans for providing for regular sharing of information among intelligence, law enforcement, and customs agencies.
    (4) Plans for training and equipping law enforcement units, customs services, and border security personnel to counter the smuggling of weapons of mass destruction and related materials and technologies.
    (5) Plans for establishing appropriate centers for analyzing seized nuclear, radiological, biological, and chemical weapons, and related materials and technologies.
    (6) Plans for establishing in the United States appropriate legal controls and authorities relating to the exporting of nuclear, radiological, biological, and chemical weapons, and related materials and technologies.
    (7) Plans for encouraging and assisting governments of foreign countries to implement and enforce laws that set forth appropriate penalties for offenses regarding the smuggling of weapons of mass destruction and related materials and technologies.
    (8) Plans for building the confidence of the United States and Russia in each other“s controls over United States and Russian nuclear weapons and fissile materials, including plans for verifying the dismantlement of nuclear weapons.
    (9) Plans for reducing United States and Russian stockpiles of excess plutonium, reflecting–
      (A) consideration of the desirability and feasibility of a United States-Russian agreement governing fissile material disposition and the specific technologies and approaches to be used for disposition of excess plutonium; and
      (B) an assessment of the options for United States cooperation with Russia in the disposition of Russian plutonium.
    (10) Plans for studying the merits and costs of establishing a global network of means for detecting and responding to terroristic or other criminal use of biological agents against people or other forms of life in the United States or any foreign country.
  (c) Report
    (1) At the same time that the President submits the budget for fiscal year 1998 to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, the President shall submit to Congress a report that sets forth the comprehensive program developed under subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) The report shall include the following:
      (A) The specific plans for the program that are required under subsection (b) of this section.
      (B) Estimates of the funds necessary, by agency or department, for carrying out such plans in fiscal year 1998 and the following five fiscal years.
    (3) The report shall be in an unclassified form. If there is a classified version of the report, the President shall submit the classified version at the same time.
