  (a) Reports
     The Director of Central Intelligence shall submit to Congress a semiannual report identifying each foreign person that, during the period covered by the report, made a material contribution to the research, development, production, or acquisition by a country of proliferation concern of–
    (1) weapons of mass destruction (including nuclear weapons, chemical weapons, or biological weapons); or
    (2) ballistic or cruise missile systems.
  (b) Period of semiannual reports
     Semiannual reports under subsection (a) of this section shall be submitted as follows:
    (1) One semiannual report shall cover the first six months of the calendar year and shall be submitted not later than January 1 of the following year.
    (2) The other semiannual report shall cover the second six months of the calendar year and shall be submitted not later than July 1 of the following year.
  (c) Form of reports
    (1) A report under subsection (a) of this section may be submitted in classified form, in whole or in part, if the Director of Central Intelligence determines that submittal in that form is advisable.
    (2) Any portion of a report under subsection (a) of this section that is submitted in classified form shall be accompanied by an unclassified summary of such portion.
  (d) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) The term ””foreign person““ means any of the following:
      (A) A natural person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      (B) A corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group that is organized under the laws of a foreign country or has its principal place of business in a foreign country.
      (C) Any foreign government or foreign governmental entity operating as a business enterprise or in any other capacity.
      (D) Any successor, subunit, or subsidiary of any entity described in subparagraph (B) or (C).
    (2) The term ””country of proliferation concern““ means any country identified by the Director of Central Intelligence as having engaged in the acquisition of dual-use and other technology useful for the development or production of weapons of mass destruction (including nuclear weapons, chemical weapons, and biological weapons) or advanced conventional munitions–
      (A) in the most recent report under section 2366 of this title; or
      (B) in any successor report on the acquisition by foreign countries of dual-use and other technology useful for the development or production of weapons of mass destruction.
