  (a) In general
    (1) There is at the head of the Administration an Administrator for Nuclear Security (in this chapter referred to as the ””Administrator““).
    (2) Pursuant to subsection (c) of section 7132 of title 42, the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security of the Department of Energy serves as the Administrator.
  (b) Functions
     The Administrator has authority over, and is responsible for, all programs and activities of the Administration (except for the functions of the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors specified in the Executive order referred to in section 2406(b) of this title), including the following:
    (1) Strategic management.
    (2) Policy development and guidance.
    (3) Budget formulation, guidance, and execution, and other financial matters.
    (4) Resource requirements determination and allocation.
    (5) Program management and direction.
    (6) Safeguards and security.
    (7) Emergency management.
    (8) Integrated safety management.
    (9) Environment, safety, and health operations.
    (10) Administration of contracts, including the management and operations of the nuclear weapons production facilities and the national security laboratories.
    (11) Intelligence.
    (12) Counterintelligence.
    (13) Personnel, including the selection, appointment, distribution, supervision, establishing of compensation, and separation of personnel in accordance with subchapter III of this chapter.
    (14) Procurement of services of experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109 of title 5.
    (15) Legal matters.
    (16) Legislative affairs.
    (17) Public affairs.
    (18) Liaison with other elements of the Department of Energy and with other Federal agencies, State, tribal, and local governments, and the public.
  (c) Procurement authority
     The Administrator is the senior procurement executive for the Administration for the purposes of section 414(3) of title 41.
  (d) Policy authority
     The Administrator may establish Administration-specific policies, unless disapproved by the Secretary of Energy.
  (e) Membership on Joint Nuclear Weapons Council
     The Administrator serves as a member of the Joint Nuclear Weapons Council under section 179 of title 10.
  (f) Reorganization authority
     Except as provided by subsections (b) and (c) of section 2481 of this title:
    (1) The Administrator may establish, abolish, alter, consolidate, or discontinue any organizational unit or component of the Administration, or transfer any function of the Administration.
    (2) Such authority does not apply to the abolition of organizational units or components established by law or the transfer of functions vested by law in any organizational unit or component.
