  (a) Submission to Congress
     The Administrator shall submit to Congress each year, at or about the time that the President“s budget is submitted to Congress that year under section 1105(a) of title 31, a future-years nuclear security program (including associated annexes) reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations included in that budget. Any such future-years nuclear security program shall cover the fiscal year with respect to which the budget is submitted and at least the four succeeding fiscal years.
  (b) Elements
     Each future-years nuclear security program shall contain the following:
    (1) A detailed description of the program elements (and the projects, activities, and construction projects associated with each such program element) during the applicable five-fiscal year period for at least each of the following:
      (A) For defense programs–
        (i) directed stockpile work;
        (ii) campaigns;
        (iii) readiness in technical base and facilities; and
        (iv) secure transportation asset.
      (B) For defense nuclear nonproliferation–
        (i) nonproliferation and verification, research, and development;
        (ii) arms control; and
        (iii) fissile materials disposition.
      (C) For naval reactors, naval reactors operations and maintenance.
    (2) A statement of proposed budget authority, estimated expenditures, and proposed appropriations necessary to support each program element specified pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (3) A detailed description of how the funds identified for each program element specified pursuant to paragraph (1) in the budget for the Administration for each fiscal year during that five-fiscal year period will help ensure that the nuclear weapons stockpile is safe and reliable, as determined in accordance with the criteria established under section 3158 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (42 U.S.C. 2121 note).
    (4) A description of the anticipated workload requirements for each Administration site during that five-fiscal year period.
  (c) Consistency in budgeting
    (1) The Administrator shall ensure that amounts described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) for any fiscal year are consistent with amounts described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) for that fiscal year.
    (2) Amounts referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
      (A) The amounts specified in program and budget information submitted to Congress by the Administrator in support of expenditure estimates and proposed appropriations in the budget submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31 for any fiscal year, as shown in the future-years nuclear security program submitted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
      (B) The total amounts of estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations necessary to support the programs, projects, and activities of the Administration included pursuant to paragraph (5) of section 1105(a) of such title in the budget submitted to Congress under that section for any fiscal year.
  (d) Treatment of management contingencies
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the inclusion in the future-years nuclear security program of amounts for management contingencies, subject to the requirements of subsection (c) of this section.
