  (a) Manufacturing program
    (1) The Secretary of Energy shall carry out a program for purposes of establishing within the Government a manufacturing infrastructure that has the capabilities of meeting the following objectives as specified in the Nuclear Posture Review:
      (A) To provide a stockpile surveillance engineering base.
      (B) To refabricate and certify weapon components and types in the enduring nuclear weapons stockpile, as necessary.
      (C) To fabricate and certify new nuclear warheads, as necessary.
      (D) To support nuclear weapons.
      (E) To supply sufficient tritium in support of nuclear weapons to ensure an upload hedge in the event circumstances require.
    (2) The purpose of the program carried out under paragraph (1) shall also be to develop manufacturing capabilities and capacities necessary to meet the requirements specified in the annual Nuclear Weapons Stockpile Review.
  (b) Required capabilities
     The manufacturing infrastructure established under the program under subsection (a) shall include the following capabilities (modernized to attain the objectives referred to in that subsection):
    (1) The weapons assembly capabilities of the Pantex Plant.
    (2) The weapon secondary fabrication capabilities of the Y–12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
    (3) The capabilities of the Savannah River Site relating to tritium recycling and fissile materials components processing and fabrication.
    (4) The non-nuclear component capabilities of the Kansas City Plant.
  (c) Nuclear Posture Review
     For purposes of subsection (a), the term ””Nuclear Posture Review““ means the Department of Defense Nuclear Posture Review as contained in the Report of the Secretary of Defense to the President and the Congress dated February 19, 1995, or subsequent such reports.
  (d) Funding
     Of the funds authorized to be appropriated under section 3101(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996 (Public Law 104–106), $143,000,000 shall be available for carrying out the program required under this section, of which–
    (1) $35,000,000 shall be available for activities at the Pantex Plant;
    (2) $30,000,000 shall be available for activities at the Y–12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee;
    (3) $35,000,000 shall be available for activities at the Savannah River Site; and
    (4) $43,000,000 shall be available for activities at the Kansas City Plant.
  (e) Plan and report
     The Secretary shall develop a plan for the implementation of this section. Not later than March 1, 1996, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the obligations the Secretary has incurred, and plans to incur, during fiscal year 1996 for the program referred to in subsection (a).
