  (a) In general
    (1) The Secretary of Energy may, in accordance with the provisions of this section, expand and enhance the activities of the Department of Energy under the Nuclear Cities Initiative.
    (2) In this section, the term ””Nuclear Cities Initiative““ means the initiative arising pursuant to the joint statement dated July 24, 1998, signed by the Vice President of the United States and the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and the agreement dated September 22, 1998, between the United States and the Russian Federation.
  (b) Funding for fiscal year 2001
     There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2001 $30,000,000 for purposes of the Nuclear Cities Initiative.
  (c) Limitation pending submission of agreement
     No amount authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2001 for the Nuclear Cities Initiative may be obligated or expended to provide assistance under the Initiative for more than three nuclear cities in Russia and two serial production facilities in Russia until 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of Energy submits to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a copy of a written agreement between the United States Government and the Government of the Russian Federation which provides that Russia will close some of its facilities engaged in nuclear weapons assembly and disassembly work.
  (d) Limitation pending implementation of project review procedures
    (1) Not more than $8,750,000 of the amounts referred to in subsection (b) may be obligated or expended for purposes of the Initiative until the Secretary of Energy establishes and implements project review procedures for projects under the Initiative and submits to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the project review procedures so established and implemented.
    (2) The project review procedures established under paragraph (1) shall ensure that any scientific, technical, or commercial project initiated under the Initiative–
      (A) will not enhance the military or weapons of mass destruction capabilities of Russia;
      (B) will not result in the inadvertent transfer or utilization of products or activities under such project for military purposes;
      (C) will be commercially viable; and
      (D) will be carried out in conjunction with an appropriate commercial, industrial, or nonprofit entity as partner.
  (e) Limitation pending certification and report
     No amount in excess of $17,500,000 authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2001 for the Nuclear Cities Initiative may be obligated or expended for purposes of providing assistance under the Initiative until 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of Energy submits to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives the following:
    (1) A copy of the written agreement between the United States and the Russian Federation which provides that Russia will close some of its facilities engaged in nuclear weapons assembly and disassembly work within five years of the date of the agreement in exchange for receiving assistance through the Initiative.
    (2) A certification by the Secretary–
      (A) that project review procedures for all projects under the Initiative have been established and are being implemented; and
      (B) that those procedures will ensure that any scientific, technical, or commercial project initiated under the Initiative–
        (i) will not enhance the military or weapons of mass destruction capabilities of Russia;
        (ii) will not result in the inadvertent transfer or utilization of products or activities under such project for military purposes;
        (iii) will be commercially viable within three years after the date of the initiation of the project; and
        (iv) will be carried out in conjunction with an appropriate commercial, industrial, or other nonprofit entity as partner.
    (3) A report setting forth the following:
      (A) A description of the project review procedures process.
      (B) A list of the projects under the Initiative that have been reviewed under such project review procedures.
      (C) A description for each project listed under subparagraph (B) of the purpose, expected life-cycle costs, out-year budget costs, participants, commercial viability, expected time for income generation, and number of Russian jobs created.
  (f) Plan for restructuring the Russian nuclear complex
    (1) The President, acting through the Secretary of Energy, is urged to enter into discussions with the Russian Federation for purposes of the development by the Russian Federation of a plan to restructure the Russian nuclear complex in order to meet changes in the national security requirements of Russia by 2010.
    (2) The plan under paragraph (1) should include the following:
      (A) Mechanisms to consolidate the nuclear weapons production capacity in Russia to a capacity that is consistent with the obligations of Russia under current and future arms control agreements.
      (B) Mechanisms to increase transparency regarding the restructuring of the Russian nuclear complex and weapons-surplus nuclear materials inventories in Russia to the levels of transparency for such matters in the United States, including the participation of Department of Energy officials with expertise in transparency of such matters.
      (C) Measurable milestones that will permit the United States and the Russian Federation to monitor progress under the plan.
  (g) Encouragement of careers in nonproliferation
    (1) In carrying out actions under this section, the Secretary of Energy may carry out a program to encourage students in the United States and in the Russian Federation to pursue careers in areas relating to nonproliferation.
    (2) Of the amounts made available under the Initiative for fiscal year 2001 in excess of $17,500,000, up to $2,000,000 shall be available for purposes of the program under paragraph (1).
    (3) The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall notify the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives before any funds are expended pursuant to paragraph (2). Any such notification shall include–
      (A) an identification of the amount to be expended under paragraph (2) during fiscal year 2001;
      (B) the recipients of the funds; and
      (C) specific information on the activities that will be conducted using those funds.
  (h) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) The term ””nuclear city““ means any of the closed nuclear cities within the complex of the Russian Ministry of Atomic Energy as follows:
      (A) Sarov (Arzamas–16).
      (B) Zarechnyy (Penza–19).
      (C) Novoural“sk (Sverdlovsk–44).
      (D) Lesnoy (Sverdlovsk–45).
      (E) Ozersk (Chelyabinsk–65).
      (F) Snezhinsk (Chelyabinsk–70).
      (G) Trechgornyy (Zlatoust–36).
      (H) Seversk (Tomsk–7).
      (I) Zheleznogorsk (Krasnoyarsk–26).
      (J) Zelenogorsk (Krasnoyarsk–45).
    (2) The term ””Russian nuclear complex““ means all of the nuclear cities.
    (3) The term ””serial production facilities““ means the facilities in Russia that are located at the following cities:
      (A) Avangard.
      (B) Lesnoy (Sverdlovsk–45).
      (C) Trechgornyy (Zlatoust–36).
      (D) Zarechnyy (Penza–19).
