  (a) In general
    (1) From amounts made available to carry out this section, the Administrator for Nuclear Security may carry out a program under which the Administrator awards, to scientists employed at nonproliferation research laboratories of the Russian Federation and the United States, international exchange fellowships, to be known as Nuclear Nonproliferation Fellowships, in the nuclear nonproliferation sciences.
    (2) The purpose of the program shall be to provide opportunities for advancement in the nuclear nonproliferation sciences to scientists who, as demonstrated by their academic or professional achievements, show particular promise of making significant contributions in those sciences.
    (3) A fellowship awarded to a scientist under the program shall be for collaborative study and training or advanced research at–
      (A) a nonproliferation research laboratory of the Russian Federation, in the case of a scientist employed at a nonproliferation research laboratory of the United States; and
      (B) a nonproliferation research laboratory of the United States, in the case of a scientist employed at a nonproliferation research laboratory of the Russian Federation.
    (4) The duration of a fellowship under the program may not exceed two years, except that the Administrator may provide for a longer duration in an individual case to the extent warranted by extraordinary circumstances, as determined by the Administrator.
    (5) In a calendar year, the Administrator may not award more than–
      (A) one fellowship to a scientist employed at a nonproliferation research laboratory of the Russian Federation; and
      (B) one fellowship to a scientist employed at a nonproliferation research laboratory of the United States.
    (6) A fellowship under the program shall include–
      (A) travel expenses; and
      (B) any other expenses that the Administrator considers appropriate, such as room and board.
  (b) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) The term ””nonproliferation research laboratory““ means, with respect to a country, a national laboratory of that country at which research in the nuclear nonproliferation sciences is carried out.
    (2) The term ””nuclear nonproliferation sciences““ means bodies of scientific knowledge relevant to developing or advancing the means to prevent or impede the proliferation of nuclear weaponry.
    (3) The term ””scientist““ means an individual who has a degree from an institution of higher education in a science that has practical application in the nuclear nonproliferation sciences.
  (c) Funding
     Amounts available to the Department of Energy for defense nuclear nonproliferation activities shall be available for the fellowships authorized by subsection (a).
