  (a) Accelerated cleanup
     The Secretary of Energy shall accelerate the schedule for environmental restoration and waste management activities and projects for a site at a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility if the Secretary determines that such an accelerated schedule will achieve meaningful, long-term cost savings to the Federal Government and could substantially accelerate the release of land for local reuse.
  (b) Consideration of factors
     In making a determination under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the following:
    (1) The cost savings achievable by the Federal Government.
    (2) The amount of time for completion of environmental restoration and waste management activities and projects at the site that can be reduced from the time specified for completion of such activities and projects in the baseline environmental management report required to be submitted for 1995 under section 3153 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (42 U.S.C. 7274k), the predecessor provision to section 2584 of this title.
    (3) The potential for reuse of the site.
    (4) The risks that the site poses to local health and safety.
    (5) The proximity of the site to populated areas.
  (c) Report
     Not later than May 1, 1996, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on each site for which the Secretary has accelerated the schedule for environmental restoration and waste management activities and projects under subsection (a). The report shall include an explanation of the basis for the determination for that site required by such subsection, including an explanation of the consideration of the factors described in subsection (b).
  (d) Savings provision
     Nothing in this section may be construed to affect a specific statutory requirement for a specific environmental restoration or waste management activity or project or to modify or otherwise affect applicable statutory or regulatory environmental restoration and waste management requirements, including substantive standards intended to protect public health and the environment.
