  (a) In general
     The Secretary of Energy shall conduct a fellowship program for the development of skills critical to the ongoing mission of the Department of Energy nuclear weapons complex. Under the fellowship program, the Secretary shall provide educational assistance and research assistance to eligible individuals to facilitate the development by such individuals of skills critical to maintaining the ongoing mission of the Department of Energy nuclear weapons complex.
  (b) Eligible individuals
     Individuals eligible for participation in the fellowship program are United States citizens who are the following:
    (1) Students pursuing graduate degrees in fields of science or engineering that are related to nuclear weapons engineering or to the science and technology base of the Department of Energy.
    (2) Individuals engaged in postdoctoral studies in such fields.
  (c) Covered facilities
     The Secretary shall carry out the fellowship program at or in connection with the following facilities:
    (1) The Kansas City Plant, Kansas City, Missouri.
    (2) The Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas.
    (3) The Y–12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
    (4) The Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina.
    (5) The Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California.
    (6) The Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico.
    (7) The Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Livermore, California.
  (d) Administration
     The Secretary shall carry out the fellowship program at a facility referred to in subsection (c) through the stockpile manager of the facility.
  (e) Allocation of funds
     The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Defense Programs, allocate funds available for the fellowship program under subsection (f) among the facilities referred to in subsection (c). The Secretary shall make the allocation after evaluating an assessment by the weapons program director of each such facility of the personnel and critical skills necessary at the facility for carrying out the ongoing mission of the facility.
  (f) Agreement
    (1) The Secretary may allow an individual to participate in the program only if the individual signs an agreement described in paragraph (2).
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) shall be in writing, shall be signed by the participant, and shall include the participant“s agreement to serve, after completion of the course of study for which the assistance was provided, as a full-time employee in a position in the Department of Energy for a period of time to be established by the Secretary of Energy of not less than one year, if such a position is offered to the participant.
