  (a) Partnerships
     For the purpose of facilitating the transfer of technology, the Secretary of Energy shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that atomic energy defense activities research on, and development of, any dual-use critical technology is conducted through cooperative research and development agreements, or other arrangements, that involve laboratories of the Department of Energy and other entities.
  (b) Cooperative research and development centers
    (1) Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for such purpose, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish a cooperative research and development center described in paragraph (2) at each national security laboratory.
    (2) A cooperative research and development center described in this paragraph is a center to foster collaborative scientific research, technology development, and the appropriate transfer of research and technology to users in addition to the national security laboratories.
    (3) In establishing a cooperative research and development center under this subsection, the Administrator–
      (A) shall enter into cooperative research and development agreements with governmental, public, academic, or private entities; and
      (B) may enter into a contract with respect to constructing, purchasing, managing, or leasing buildings or other facilities.
  (c) Definitions
     In this section:
    (1) The term ””dual-use critical technology““ means a technology–
      (A) that is critical to atomic energy defense activities, as determined by the Secretary of Energy;
      (B) that has military applications and nonmilitary applications; and
      (C) that either–
        (i)          (I) appears on the list of national critical technologies contained in a biennial report on national critical technologies submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to section 6683(d) \1\N of title 42; and
          (II) has not been expressly deleted from such list by such a report subsequently submitted to Congress by the President; or
        (ii)          (I) appears on the list of critical technologies contained in an annual defense critical technologies plan submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 2506 \1\ of title 10; and
          (II) has not been expressly deleted from such list by such a plan subsequently submitted to Congress by the Secretary.
    (2) The term ””cooperative research and development agreement““ has the meaning given that term by section 3710a(d) of title 15.
    (3) The term ””other entities““ means–
      (A) firms, or a consortium of firms, that are eligible to participate in a partnership or other arrangement with a laboratory of the Department of Energy, as determined in accordance with applicable law and regulations; or
      (B) firms, or a consortium of firms, described in subparagraph (A) in combination with one or more of the following:
        (i) Institutions of higher education in the United States.
        (ii) Departments and agencies of the Federal Government other than the Department of Energy.
        (iii) Agencies of State Governments.
        (iv) Any other persons or entities that may be eligible and appropriate, as determined in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
    (4) The term ””atomic energy defense activities““ does not include activities covered by Executive Order No. 12344, dated February 1, 1982, pertaining to the Naval nuclear propulsion program.
    (5) The term ””national security laboratory““ has the meaning given that term in section 2471 of this title.
