  (a) Purpose
     The purpose of this section is to encourage the Secretary of Energy to dispose of or otherwise utilize certain assets of the Department of Energy by making available to the Secretary the proceeds of such disposal or utilization for purposes of defraying the costs of such disposal or utilization.
  (b) Use of proceeds to defray costs
    (1) Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, the Secretary may retain from the proceeds of the sale, lease, or disposal of an asset under subsection (c) an amount equal to the cost of the sale, lease, or disposal of the asset. The Secretary shall utilize amounts retained under this paragraph to defray the cost of the sale, lease, or disposal.
    (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the cost of a sale, lease, or disposal shall include–
      (A) the cost of administering the sale, lease, or disposal;
      (B) the cost of recovering or preparing the asset concerned for the sale, lease, or disposal; and
      (C) any other cost associated with the sale, lease, or disposal.
  (c) Covered transactions
     Subsection (b) applies to the following transactions:
    (1) The sale of heavy water at the Savannah River Site, South Carolina, that is under the jurisdiction of the Defense Environmental Management Program.
    (2) The sale of precious metals that are under the jurisdiction of the Defense Environmental Management Program.
    (3) The lease of buildings and other facilities located at the Hanford Reservation, Washington, that are under the jurisdiction of the Defense Environmental Management Program.
    (4) The lease of buildings and other facilities located at the Savannah River Site that are under the jurisdiction of the Defense Environmental Management Program.
    (5) The disposal of equipment and other personal property located at the Rocky Flats Defense Environmental Technology Site, Colorado, that is under the jurisdiction of the Defense Environmental Management Program.
    (6) The disposal of materials at the National Electronics Recycling Center, Oak Ridge, Tennessee that are under the jurisdiction of the Defense Environmental Management Program.
  (d) Applicability of disposal authority
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the application of subchapter II of chapter 5 and section 549 of title 40 to the disposal of equipment and other personal property covered by this section.
  (e) Report
     Not later than January 31, 1999, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on amounts retained by the Secretary under subsection (b) during fiscal year 1998.
