  (a) In general
     The President is authorized to provide assistance under subsection (b) to any country that cooperates with the United States and with other countries allied with the United States to prevent the transport and transshipment of items of proliferation concern in its national territory or airspace or in vessels under its control or registry.
  (b) Types of assistance
     The assistance authorized under subsection (a) consists of the following:
    (1) Assistance under section 2763 of title 22.
    (2) Assistance under chapters 4 (22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq.) and 5 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.) of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (3) Drawdown of defense \1\N excess defense articles and services under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j).
  (c) Congressional notification
     Assistance authorized under this section may not be provided until at least 30 days after the date on which the President has provided notice thereof to the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394–1(a)), and has certified to such committees that such assistance will be used in accordance with the requirement of subsection (e) of this section.
  (d) Limitation
     Assistance may be provided to a country under subsection (a) in no more than 3 fiscal years.
  (e) Use of assistance
     Assistance provided under this section shall be used to enhance the capability of the recipient country to prevent the transport and transshipment of items of proliferation concern in its national territory or airspace, or in vessels under its control or registry, including through the development of a legal framework in that country to enhance such capability by criminalizing proliferation, enacting strict export controls, and securing sensitive materials within its borders, and to enhance the ability of the recipient country to cooperate in PSI operations.
  (f) Limitation on ship or aircraft transfers
    (1) Limitation
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), the President may not transfer any excess defense article that is a vessel or an aircraft to a country that has not agreed, in connection with such transfer, that it will support and assist efforts by the United States, consistent with international law, to interdict items of proliferation concern until 30 days after the date on which the President has provided notice of the proposed transfer to the committees described in subsection (c) in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394–1(a)), in addition to any other requirement of law.
    (2) Exception
       The limitation in paragraph (1) shall not apply to any transfer, not involving significant military equipment, in which the primary use of the aircraft or vessel will be for counternarcotics, counterterrorism, or counter-proliferation purposes.
