  (a) In general
     The Director may carry out a program under which elements of the Agency provide items and services on a reimbursable basis to other elements of the Agency, nonappropriated fund entities or instrumentalities associated or affiliated with the Agency, and other Government agencies. The Director shall carry out the program in accordance with the provisions of this section.
  (b) Participation of Agency elements
    (1) In order to carry out the program, the Director shall–
      (A) designate the elements of the Agency that are to provide items or services under the program (in this section referred to as ””central service providers““);
      (B) specify the items or services to be provided under the program by such providers; and
      (C) assign to such providers for purposes of the program such inventories, equipment, and other assets (including equipment on order) as the Director determines necessary to permit such providers to provide items or services under the program.
    (2) The designation of elements and the specification of items and services under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
  (c) Central Services Working Capital Fund
    (1) There is established a fund to be known as the Central Services Working Capital Fund (in this section referred to as the ””Fund““). The purpose of the Fund is to provide sums for activities under the program.
    (2) There shall be deposited in the Fund the following:
      (A) Amounts appropriated to the Fund.
      (B) Amounts credited to the Fund from payments received by central service providers under subsection (e) of this section.
      (C) Fees imposed and collected under subsection (f)(1) of this section.
      (D) Amounts received in payment for loss or damage to equipment or property of a central service provider as a result of activities under the program.
      (E) Other receipts from the sale or exchange of equipment or property of a central service provider as a result of activities under the program.
      (F) Receipts from individuals in reimbursement for utility services and meals provided under the program.
      (G) Receipts from individuals for the rental of property and equipment under the program.
      (H) Such other amounts as the Director is authorized to deposit in or transfer to the Fund.
    (3) Amounts in the Fund shall be available, without fiscal year limitation, for the following purposes:
      (A) To pay the costs of providing items or services under the program.
      (B) To pay the costs of carrying out activities under subsection (f)(2) of this section.
  (d) Limitation on amount of orders
     The total value of all orders for items or services to be provided under the program in any fiscal year may not exceed an amount specified in advance by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
  (e) Payment for items and services
    (1) A Government agency provided items or services under the program shall pay the central service provider concerned for such items or services an amount equal to the costs incurred by the provider in providing such items or services plus any fee imposed under subsection (f) of this section. In calculating such costs, the Director shall take into account personnel costs (including costs associated with salaries, annual leave, and workers“ compensation), plant and equipment costs (including depreciation of plant and equipment other than structures owned by the Agency), operation and maintenance expenses, amortized costs, and other expenses.
    (2) Payment for items or services under paragraph (1) may take the form of an advanced payment by an agency from appropriations available to such agency for the procurement of such items or services.
  (f) Fees
    (1) The Director may permit a central service provider to impose and collect a fee with respect to the provision of an item or service under the program. The amount of the fee may not exceed an amount equal to four percent of the payment received by the provider for the item or service.
    (2)      (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Director may obligate and expend amounts in the Fund that are attributable to the fees imposed and collected under paragraph (1) to acquire equipment or systems for, or to improve the equipment or systems of, central service providers and any elements of the Agency that are not designated for participation in the program in order to facilitate the designation of such elements for future participation in the program.
      (B) The Director may not expend amounts in the Fund for purposes specified in subparagraph (A) in fiscal year 1998, 1999, or 2000 unless the Director–
        (i) secures the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; and
        (ii) submits notice of the proposed expenditure to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
  (g) Audit
    (1) Not later than January 31 each year, the Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency shall complete an audit of the activities under the program during the preceding fiscal year.
    (2) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall determine the form and content of financial statements to be prepared with respect to the program. Office of Management and Budget guidance shall also determine the procedures for conducting annual audits under paragraph (1)..\1\N Such audits shall include an itemized accounting of the items or services provided, the costs associated with the items or services provided, the payments and any fees received for the items or services provided, and the agencies provided items or services.
    (3) Not later than 30 days after the completion of an audit under paragraph (1), the Inspector General shall submit a copy of the audit to the following:
      (A) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
      (B) The Director of Central Intelligence.
      (C) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
      (D) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
  (h) Termination
    (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Director of Central Intelligence and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, acting jointly–
      (A) may terminate the program under this section and the Fund at any time; and
      (B) upon such termination, shall provide for the disposition of the personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the program or the Fund.
    (2) The Director of Central Intelligence and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may not undertake any action under paragraph (1) until 60 days after the date on which the Directors jointly submit notice of such action to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
