  (a) Report on intelligence community cooperation with Federal law enforcement agencies
    (1) Not later than December 31 of each year, the Director of Central Intelligence shall submit to the congressional leadership a report describing the nature and extent of cooperation and assistance provided by the intelligence community to Federal law enforcement agencies with respect to efforts to stop the illegal importation into the United States of controlled substances (as that term is defined in section 102(6) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)) that are included in schedule I or II under part B of such Act [21 U.S.C. 811 et seq.].
    (2) Not later each year than the date provided in section 415b of this title, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees the report required to be submitted under paragraph (1) during the preceding year.
    (3) Each such report shall include a discussion of the following:
      (A) Illegal importation of such controlled substances through transit zones such as the Caribbean Sea and across the Southwest and northern borders of the United States.
      (B) Methodologies used for such illegal importation.
      (C) Additional routes used for such illegal importation.
      (D) Quantities of such controlled substances transported through each route.
    (4) Each such report may be prepared in classified form, unclassified form, or unclassified form with a classified annex.
  (b) Annual report on the safety and security of Russian nuclear facilities and nuclear military forces
    (1) The Director of Central Intelligence shall submit to the congressional leadership on an annual basis, and to the congressional intelligence committees on the date each year provided in section 415b of this title, an intelligence report assessing the safety and security of the nuclear facilities and nuclear military forces in Russia.
    (2) Each such report shall include a discussion of the following:
      (A) The ability of the Government of Russia to maintain its nuclear military forces.
      (B) The security arrangements at civilian and military nuclear facilities in Russia.
      (C) The reliability of controls and safety systems at civilian nuclear facilities in Russia.
      (D) The reliability of command and control systems and procedures of the nuclear military forces in Russia.
    (3) Each such report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
  (c) Annual report on hiring and retention of minority employees
    (1) The Director of Central Intelligence shall, on an annual basis, submit to Congress a report on the employment of covered persons within each element of the intelligence community for the preceding fiscal year.
    (2) Each such report shall include disaggregated data by category of covered person from each element of the intelligence community on the following:
      (A) Of all individuals employed in the element during the fiscal year involved, the aggregate percentage of such individuals who are covered persons.
      (B) Of all individuals employed in the element during the fiscal year involved at the levels referred to in clauses (i) and (ii), the percentage of covered persons employed at such levels:
        (i) Positions at levels 1 through 15 of the General Schedule.
        (ii) Positions at levels above GS–15.
      (C) Of all individuals hired by the element involved during the fiscal year involved, the percentage of such individuals who are covered persons.
    (3) Each such report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
    (4) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as providing for the substitution of any similar report required under another provision of law.
    (5) In this subsection, the term ””covered persons““ means–
      (A) racial and ethnic minorities;
      (B) women; and
      (C) individuals with disabilities.
  (d) Annual report on threat of attack on the United States using weapons of mass destruction
    (1) Not later each year than the date provided in section 415b of this title, the Director shall submit to the congressional committees specified in paragraph (3) a report assessing the following:
      (A) The current threat of attack on the United States using ballistic missiles or cruise missiles.
      (B) The current threat of attack on the United States using a chemical, biological, or nuclear weapon delivered by a system other than a ballistic missile or cruise missile.
    (2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall be a national intelligence estimate, or have the formality of a national intelligence estimate.
    (3) The congressional committees referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
      (A) The congressional intelligence committees.
      (B) The Committees on Foreign Relations and Armed Services of the Senate.
      (C) The Committees on International Relations and Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
  (e) Annual report on covert leases
    (1) Not later each year than the date provided in section 415b of this title, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on each covert lease of an element of the intelligence community that is in force as of the end of the preceding year.
    (2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
      (A) A list of each lease described by that paragraph.
      (B) For each lease–
        (i) the cost of such lease;
        (ii) the duration of such lease;
        (iii) the purpose of such lease; and
        (iv) the directorate or office that controls such lease.
  (f) Congressional leadership defined
     In this section, the term ””congressional leadership““ means the Speaker and the minority leader of the House of Representatives and the majority leader and the minority leader of the Senate.
