  (a) Annual reports
    (1) The date for the submittal to the congressional intelligence committees of the following annual reports shall be the date each year provided in subsection (c)(1)(A) of this section:
      (A) The annual evaluation of the performance and responsiveness of certain elements of the intelligence community required by section 403–5(d) of this title.
      (B) The annual report on intelligence required by section 404d of this title.
      (C) The annual report on intelligence community cooperation with Federal law enforcement agencies required by section 404i(a)(2) of this title.
      (D) The annual report on the protection of the identities of covert agents required by section 423 of this title.
      (E) The annual report of the Inspectors Generals of the intelligence community on proposed resources and activities of their offices required by section 8H(g) of the Inspector General Act of 1978.
      (F) The annual report on commercial activities as security for intelligence collection required by section 437(c) of title 10.
      (G) The annual report on expenditures for postemployment assistance for terminated intelligence employees required by section 1611(e)(2) of title 10.
      (H) The annual update on foreign industrial espionage required by section 2170b(b) of the Appendix to this title.
      (I) The annual report on coordination of counterintelligence matters with the Federal Bureau of Investigation required by section 402a(c)(6) of this title.
      (J) The annual report on foreign companies involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction that raise funds in the United States capital markets required by section 404n–3 of this title.
      (K) The annual report on certifications for immunity in interdiction of aircraft engaged in illicit drug trafficking required by section 2291–4(c)(2) of title 22.
      (L) The annual report on exceptions to consumer disclosure requirements for national security investigations under section 1681b(b)(4)(E) of title 15.
      (M) The annual report on activities under the David L. Boren National Security Education Act of 1991 (title VIII of Public Law 102–183; 50 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) required by section 806(a) of that Act (50 U.S.C. 1906(a)).
      (N) The annual report on hiring and retention of minority employees in the intelligence community required by section 404i(c) of this title.
    (2) The date for the submittal to the congressional intelligence committees of the following annual reports shall be the date each year provided in subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section:
      (A) The annual report on the safety and security of Russian nuclear facilities and nuclear military forces required by section 404i(b) of this title.
      (B) The annual report on the threat of attack on the United States from weapons of mass destruction required by section 404i(d) of this title.
      (C) The annual report on covert leases required by section 404i(e) of this title.
      (D) The annual report on improvements of the financial statements of the intelligence community for auditing purposes required by section 404i–1 of this title.
      (E) The annual report on activities of personnel of the Federal Bureau of Investigation outside the United States required by section 540C(c)(2) of title 28.
      (F) The annual report on intelligence activities of the People“s Republic of China required by section 308(c) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105–107; 50 U.S.C. 402a note).
      (G) The annual report on counterdrug intelligence matters required by section 826 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003.
  (b) Semiannual reports
     The dates for the submittal to the congressional intelligence committees of the following semiannual reports shall be the dates each year provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section:
    (1) The periodic reports on intelligence provided to the United Nations required by section 404g(b) of this title.
    (2) The semiannual reports on the Office of the Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency required by section 403q(d)(1) of this title.
    (3) The semiannual reports on decisions not to prosecute certain violations of law under the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.) as required by section 13 of that Act.
    (4) The semiannual reports on the acquisition of technology relating to weapons of mass destruction and advanced conventional munitions required by section 2366(b) of this title.
    (5) The semiannual reports on the activities of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Program Office (DTS–PO) required by section 7302(a)(6)(D)(ii) of title 22.
    (6) The semiannual reports on the disclosure of information and consumer reports to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for counterintelligence purposes required by section 1681u(h)(2) of title 15.\1\N
    (7) The semiannual provision of information on requests for financial information for foreign counterintelligence purposes required by section 3414(a)(5)(C) of title 12.
    (8) The semiannual report on financial intelligence on terrorist assets required by section 404m of this title.
  (c) Submittal dates for reports
    (1)      (A) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, each annual report listed in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall be submitted not later than February 1.
      (B) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, each annual report listed in subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be submitted not later than December 1.
    (2) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, each semiannual report listed in subsection (b) of this section shall be submitted not later than February 1 and August 1.
  (d) Postponement of submittal
    (1) Subject to paragraph (3), the date for the submittal of–
      (A) an annual report listed in subsection (a)(1) of this section may be postponed until March 1;
      (B) an annual report listed in subsection (a)(2) of this section may be postponed until January 1; and
      (C) a semiannual report listed in subsection (b) of this section may be postponed until March 1 or September 1, as the case may be,
         if the official required to submit such report submits to the congressional intelligence committees a written notification of such postponement.
    (2)      (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to paragraph (3), the date for the submittal to the congressional intelligence committees of any report described in subparagraph (B) may be postponed by not more than 30 days from the date otherwise specified in the provision of law for the submittal of such report if the official required to submit such report submits to the congressional intelligence committees a written notification of such postponement.
      (B) A report described in this subparagraph is any report on intelligence or intelligence-related activities of the United States Government that is submitted under a provision of law requiring the submittal of only a single report.
    (3)      (A) The date for the submittal of a report whose submittal is postponed under paragraph (1) or (2) may be postponed beyond the time provided for the submittal of such report under such paragraph if the official required to submit such report submits to the congressional intelligence committees a written certification that preparation and submittal of such report at such time will impede the work of officers or employees of the intelligence community in a manner that will be detrimental to the national security of the United States.
      (B) A certification with respect to a report under subparagraph (A) shall include a proposed submittal date for such report, and such report shall be submitted not later than that date.
