  (a) Inspection process
    (1) In order to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure, the Director of Central Intelligence shall establish and implement an inspection process for all agencies and departments of the United States that handle classified information relating to the national security of the United States intended to assure that those agencies and departments maintain effective operational security practices and programs directed against counterintelligence activities.
    (2) The Director shall carry out the process through the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive.
  (b) Annual review of dissemination lists
    (1) The Director of Central Intelligence shall establish and implement a process for all elements of the intelligence community to review, on an annual basis, individuals included on distribution lists for access to classified information. Such process shall ensure that only individuals who have a particularized ””need to know““ (as determined by the Director) are continued on such distribution lists.
    (2) Not later than October 15 of each year, the Director shall certify to the congressional intelligence committees that the review required under paragraph (1) has been conducted in all elements of the intelligence community during the preceding fiscal year.
  (c) Completion of financial disclosure statements required for access to certain classified information
    (1) The Director of Central Intelligence shall establish and implement a process by which each head of an element of the intelligence community directs that all employees of that element, in order to be granted access to classified information referred to in subsection (a) of section 1.3 of Executive Order No. 12968 (August 2, 1995; 60 Fed. Reg. 40245; 50 U.S.C. 435 note), submit financial disclosure forms as required under subsection (b) of such section.
    (2) The Director shall carry out paragraph (1) through the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive.
  (d) Arrangements to handle sensitive information
     The Director of Central Intelligence shall establish, for all elements of the intelligence community, programs and procedures by which sensitive classified information relating to human intelligence is safeguarded against unauthorized disclosure by employees of those elements.
