  (a) Not later than the first Monday in February of any year following the year in which the term of the President commences under section 101 of title 3, the head of each agency shall make available on the public website of the agency a strategic plan and notify the President and Congress of its availability. Such plan shall contain–
    (1) a comprehensive mission statement covering the major functions and operations of the agency;
    (2) general goals and objectives, including outcome-oriented goals, for the major functions and operations of the agency;
    (3) a description of how any goals and objectives contribute to the Federal Government priority goals required by section 1120(a) of title 31;
    (4) a description of how the goals and objectives are to be achieved, including–
      (A) a description of the operational processes, skills and technology, and the human, capital, information, and other resources required to achieve those goals and objectives; and
      (B) a description of how the agency is working with other agencies to achieve its goals and objectives as well as relevant Federal Government priority goals;
    (5) a description of how the goals and objectives incorporate views and suggestions obtained through congressional consultations required under subsection (d);
    (6) a description of how the performance goals provided in the plan required by section 1115(a) of title 31, including the agency priority goals required by section 1120(b) of title 31, if applicable, contribute to the general goals and objectives in the strategic plan;
    (7) an identification of those key factors external to the agency and beyond its control that could significantly affect the achievement of the general goals and objectives; and
    (8) a description of the program evaluations used in establishing or revising general goals and objectives, with a schedule for future program evaluations to be conducted.
  (b) The strategic plan shall cover a period of not less than 4 years following the fiscal year in which the plan is submitted. As needed, the head of the agency may make adjustments to the strategic plan to reflect significant changes in the environment in which the agency is operating, with appropriate notification of Congress.
  (c) The performance plan required by section 1115(b) of title 31 shall be consistent with the agency“s strategic plan. A performance plan may not be submitted for a fiscal year not covered by a current strategic plan under this section.
  (d) When developing or making adjustments to a strategic plan, the agency shall consult periodically with the Congress, including majority and minority views from the appropriate authorizing, appropriations, and oversight committees, and shall solicit and consider the views and suggestions of those entities potentially affected by or interested in such a plan. The agency shall consult with the appropriate committees of Congress at least once every 2 years.
  (e) The functions and activities of this section shall be considered to be inherently governmental functions. The drafting of strategic plans under this section shall be performed only by Federal employees.
  (f) For purposes of this section the term ””agency““ means an Executive agency defined under section 105, but does not include the Central Intelligence Agency, the Government Accountability Office, the United States Postal Service, and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
