  (a)    (1) In order to ensure that the performance of career appointees demonstrates the excellence needed to meet the goals of the Senior Executive Service, as set forth in section 3131, each career appointee shall be subject to recertification by the employing agency in accordance with the provisions of this section.  
    (2) Beginning in calendar year 1991, and recurring every third calendar year thereafter, the head of an agency shall determine a time during such calendar year when the performance of career appointees in the agency shall be subject to recertification. Recertification shall not be required of any career appointee who has not been continuously employed as a senior executive for the 156 weeks preceding the time determined for the recertification. For the purposes of the previous sentence, a break in service of 6 months shall be deemed not to interrupt the 156 weeks of continuous employment.  
  (b) The supervising official of each career appointee shall submit to a performance review board established by the agency under section 4314 a recommendation as to whether the career appointee“s performance justifies recertification as a senior executive, based on such factors as the career appointee“s performance ratings for the 3 preceding years under section 4314, any award or other recognition received by the career appointee, any developmental activities of the career appointee, and any other relevant factors. The supervising official“s recommendation shall reflect that official“s view as to whether the career appointee“s overall performance over the 3 preceding years has demonstrated the excellence expected of a senior executive in relation to the written performance requirements for the career appointee“s senior executive position as established under section 4312(b). The career appointee may submit to the performance review board a statement of accomplishments and other documentation giving evidence of the quality of the career appointee“s performance.  
  (c)    (1) After considering the recommendation and other information received under subsection (b), the performance review board shall submit to the appointing authority a recommendation as to whether the career appointee should be recertified, conditionally recertified, or not recertified as a senior executive. If the board proposes to recommend conditional recertification or nonrecertification, then the affected appointee shall be so notified and shall have the opportunity to appear before the performance review board. If the board is recommending that the career appointee be recertified, the board may also recommend that the career appointee“s rate of basic pay be increased to a higher rate established under section 5382. If the board is recommending that the career appointee be conditionally recertified, the board may recommend that the career appointee“s pay be reduced to the next lower rate established under section 5382. The board shall also provide to the appointing authority the recommendation and other information received under subsection (b).  
    (2) More than one-half of the members of a performance review board under this section shall consist of career appointees. The requirement of the preceding sentence shall not apply in any case in which the Office of Personnel Management determines that there exists an insufficient number of career appointees available to comply with the requirement.  
  (d)    (1) If the appointing authority determines that the career appointee“s performance during the preceding 3 years demonstrates the excellence expected of a senior executive, the appointing authority shall recommend to the head of the agency that the career appointee be recertified as a senior executive.  
    (2) If the appointing authority determines that the career appointee“s performance has not demonstrated the excellence expected of a senior executive, the appointing authority shall recommend to the head of the agency that the career appointee be conditionally recertified as a senior executive or not be recertified as a senior executive.  
  (e)    (1) If the head of the agency decides that the career appointee“s performance warrants recertification as a senior executive, the career appointee shall continue in the Senior Executive Service. If a career appointee is recertified as a senior executive, the career appointee“s rate of basic pay may not be reduced at the time of recertification.  
    (2) If the head of the agency decides that the career appointee“s performance does not warrant full recertification, but does warrant conditional recertification, the career appointee–  
      (A) shall remain a career appointee in the Senior Executive Service;  
      (B) shall be subject to continuing close review of the career appointee“s performance by the supervising official in coordination with an executive resources board established under section 3393, in accordance with a performance improvement plan developed by the supervising official and subject to the approval of the executive resources board;  
      (C) may, if the head of the agency so determines, be reduced to the next lower rate of basic pay established under section 5382; and  
      (D) shall be removed from the Senior Executive Service if the career appointee is not recertified as a senior executive at the end of the 12-month period following the conditional recertification.  
         If, at the end of the 12-month period following the conditional recertification, the career appointee is recertified as a senior executive, any reduction that was made in the career appointee“s rate of basic pay under subparagraph (C) shall be restored prospectively.  
    (3) If the head of the agency decides that the career appointee“s performance does not demonstrate that the career appointee qualifies for recertification or conditional recertification as a senior executive, the career appointee shall be removed from the Senior Executive Service in accordance with section 3592.  
  (f) The Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe standards and procedures to ensure consistency and fairness for the process of recertification under this section.  
