   Level II of the Executive Schedule applies to the following positions, for which the annual rate of basic pay shall be the rate determined with respect to such level under chapter 11 of title 2, as adjusted by section 5318 of this title:
   Deputy Secretary of Defense.
   Deputy Secretary of State.
   Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources.
   Administrator, Agency for International Development.
   Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
   Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security.
   Deputy Secretary of the Treasury.
   Deputy Secretary of Transportation.
   Chairman, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers.
   Director of the Office of Science and Technology.
   Director of Central Intelligence.
   Secretary of the Air Force.
   Secretary of the Army.
   Secretary of the Navy.
   Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration.
   Director of the National Science Foundation.
   Deputy Attorney General.
   Deputy Secretary of Energy.
   Deputy Secretary of Agriculture.
   Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
   Administrator, Federal Highway Administration.
   Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
   Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
   Deputy Secretary of Labor.
   Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
   Independent Members, Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board.
   Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services.
   Deputy Secretary of the Interior.
   Deputy Secretary of Education.
   Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
   Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget.
   Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   Deputy Commissioner of Social Security, Social Security Administration.
   Administrator of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund.
   Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy.
   Members, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
   The Under Secretary of Transportation for Security.
   Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy.
   Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation.
   Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence.
   Director of the National Counterterrorism Center.
   Director of the National Counter Proliferation Center.
   Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
