   Level III of the Executive Schedule applies to the following positions, for which the annual rate of basic pay shall be the rate determined with respect to such level under chapter 11 of title 2, as adjusted by section 5318 of this title:
   Solicitor General of the United States.
   Under Secretary of Commerce, Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, and Under Secretary of Commerce for Travel and Tourism.
   Under Secretaries of State (6).
   Under Secretaries of the Treasury (3).
   Administrator of General Services.
   Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
   Deputy Administrator, Agency for International Development.
   Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board.
   Chairman, Federal Communications Commission.
   Chairman, Board of Directors, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   Chairman, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
   Chairman, Federal Trade Commission.
   Chairman, Surface Transportation Board.
   Chairman, National Labor Relations Board.
   Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Chairman, National Mediation Board.
   Chairman, Railroad Retirement Board.
   Chairman, Federal Maritime Commission.
   Comptroller of the Currency.
   Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
   Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
   Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
   Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
   Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
   Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
   Under Secretary of the Air Force.
   Under Secretary of the Army.
   Under Secretary of the Navy.
   Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Deputy Directors of Central Intelligence (2).
   Director of the Office of Emergency Planning.
   Director of the Peace Corps.
   Deputy Director, National Science Foundation.
   President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington.
   Members, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   Members, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
   Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice.
   Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
   Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.
   Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration.
   Chairman, National Transportation Safety Board.
   Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts the incumbent of which also serves as Chairman of the National Council on the Arts.
   Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
   Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
   Federal Transit Administrator.
   President, Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
   Chairman, Postal Regulatory Commission.
   Chairman, Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
   Governor of the Farm Credit Administration.
   Chairman, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
   Chairman, Consumer Product Safety Commission.
   Under Secretaries of Energy (3).
   Chairman, Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
   Deputy United States Trade Representatives (3).
   Chief Agricultural Negotiator.
   Chairman, United States International Trade Commission.
   Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, the incumbent of which also serves as Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Associate Attorney General.
   Chairman, Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
   Chairman, National Credit Union Administration Board.
   Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.
   Director, Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation.
   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development.
   Administrator, Maritime Administration.
   Executive Director Property Review Board.
   Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
   Archivist of the United States.
   Executive Director, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
   Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology.
   Director, Trade and Development Agency.
   Under Secretary for Health, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Under Secretary for Benefits, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Under Secretaries, Department of Homeland Security.
   Director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.
   Director of the Office of Government Ethics.
   Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy.
   Administrator, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget.
   Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.
   Chairperson of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
   Executive Secretary, National Space Council.
   Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget.
   Administrator, Research and Innovative Technology Administration.
   Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy.
   Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy.
   Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, Office of National Drug Control Policy.
   Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
   Register of Copyrights.
   Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security.
   Under Secretary of Education \1\N
   Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
   Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government.
   Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.
   Director, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
   Deputy Administrators, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   Chief Executive Officer, International Clean Energy Foundation.
