   Level IV of the Executive Schedule applies to the following positions, for which the annual rate of basic pay shall be the rate determined with respect to such level under chapter 11 of title 2, as adjusted by section 5318 of this title:
   Deputy Administrator of General Services.
   Associate Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Assistant Administrators, Agency for International Development (6).
   Regional Assistant Administrators, Agency for International Development (4).
   Under Secretary of the Air Force.
   Under Secretary of the Army.
   Under Secretary of the Navy.
   Assistant Secretaries of Agriculture (3).
   Assistant Secretaries of Commerce (11).
   Assistant Secretaries of Defense (10).
   Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force (4).
   Assistant Secretaries of the Army (5).
   Assistant Secretaries of the Navy (4).
   Assistant Secretaries of Health and Human Services (6).
   Assistant Secretaries of the Interior (6).
   Assistant Attorneys General (10).
   Assistant Secretaries of Labor (10), one of whom shall be the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans“ Employment and Training.
   20 Assistant Secretaries of State and 4 other State Department officials to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
   Assistant Secretaries of the Treasury (7).
   Members, United States International Trade Commission (5).
   Assistant Secretaries of Education (10).
   General Counsel, Department of Education.
   Inspector General, Department of Education.
   Director of Civil Defense, Department of the Army.
   Deputy Director of the Office of Emergency Planning.
   Deputy Director of the Office of Science and Technology.
   Deputy Director of the Peace Corps.
   Deputy Director of the United States Information Agency.
   Assistant Directors of the Office of Management and Budget (3).
   General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture.
   General Counsel of the Department of Commerce.
   General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
   General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services.
   Solicitor of the Department of the Interior.
   Solicitor of the Department of Labor.
   General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
   General Counsel of the Department of the Treasury.
   First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington.
   Members, Council of Economic Advisers.
   Members, Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of Washington.
   Members, Federal Communications Commission.
   Member, Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   Directors, Federal Housing Finance Board.
   Members, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
   Members, Federal Trade Commission.
   Members, Surface Transportation Board.
   Members, National Labor Relations Board.
   Members, Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Members, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
   Members, Merit Systems Protection Board.
   Members, Federal Maritime Commission.
   Members, National Mediation Board.
   Members, Railroad Retirement Board.
   Director of Selective Service.
   Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice.
   Members, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (4).
   Director, Community Relations Service.
   Members, National Transportation Safety Board.
   General Counsel, Department of Transportation.
   Deputy Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration.
   Assistant Secretaries of Transportation (4).
   Deputy Federal Highway Administrator.
   Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
   Assistant Secretary for Science, Smithsonian Institution.
   Assistant Secretary for History and Art, Smithsonian Institution.
   Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
   Assistant Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development (8).
   General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   Commissioner of Interama.
   Federal Insurance Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   Executive Vice President, Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
   Members, National Credit Union Administration Board (2).
   Members, Postal Rate Commission (4).
   Members, Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
   Deputy Under Secretaries of the Treasury (or Assistant Secretaries of the Treasury) (2).
   Members, Consumer Product Safety Commission (4).
   Members, Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
   Director of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   Director of Nuclear Regulatory Research, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   Executive Director for Operations, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   President, Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, the incumbent of which also serves as Deputy Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, Department of Justice.
   Director, Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice.
   Assistant Secretaries of Energy (8).
   General Counsel of the Department of Energy.
   Administrator, Economic Regulatory Administration, Department of Energy.
   Administrator, Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy.
   Inspector General, Department of Energy.
   Director, Office of Energy Research, Department of Energy.
   Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health.
   Members, Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
   President, National Consumer Cooperative Bank.
   Inspector General, Department of Health and Human Services.
   Inspector General, Department of Agriculture.
   Special Counsel of the Merit Systems Protection Board.
   Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   Chairman, Federal Labor Relations Authority.
   Inspector General, Department of Labor.
   Inspector General, Department of Transportation.
   Inspector General, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Deputy Director, Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation.
   Director of the National Institute of Justice.
   Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics.
   Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration.
   Inspector General, Department of Defense.
   Assistant Administrator for Toxic Substances, Environmental Protection Agency.
   Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency.
   Assistant Administrators, Environmental Protection Agency (8).
   Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, Department of Defense.
   Special Representatives of the President for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament matters, United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
   Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration.
   Director, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce.
   Assistant Directors, United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (4).
   Inspector General, United States Information Agency.
   Inspector General, Department of State.
   Director of Defense Research and Engineering.
   Ambassadors at Large.
   Commissioner, National Center for Education Statistics.
   Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service.
   Inspector General, Department of Commerce.
   Inspector General, Department of the Interior.
   Inspector General, Department of Justice.
   Inspector General, Department of the Treasury.
   Inspector General, Agency for International Development.
   Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agency.
   Inspector General, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   Inspector General, General Services Administration.
   Inspector General, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Inspector General, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   Inspector General, Office of Personnel Management.
   Inspector General, Railroad Retirement Board.
   Inspector General, Small Business Administration.
   Inspector General, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   Assistant Secretaries, Department of Veterans Affairs (6).
   General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Director of the National Cemetery System.
   Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services \1\N
   Chairman, Board of Veterans“ Appeals.
   Associate Director for National Drug Control Policy, Office of National Drug Control Policy.
   Administrator, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
   Director, United States Marshals Service.
   Inspector General, Resolution Trust Corporation.
   Chairman, United States Parole Commission.
   Director, Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce.
   Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Commerce.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Education.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Health and Human Services.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Interior.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Justice.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Labor.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of State.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Transportation.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury.
   Chief Financial Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency.
   Chief Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Commissioner, Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation.
   Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency \1\
   Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
   General Counsel of the Department of the Army.
   General Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
   General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force.
   Administrator of the Panama Canal Commission.
   Liaison for Community and Junior Colleges, Department of Education \1\
   Commissioner of Customs, Department of the Treasury.
   Director of the Office of Educational Technology.
   Director of the International Broadcasting Bureau, the United States Information Agency.
   Inspector General, Social Security Administration.
   The \2\N Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor.
   Administrator, Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture.
   Executive Director of the Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Agriculture.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Commerce.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Defense (unless the official designated as the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense is an official listed under section 5312, 5313, or 5314 of this title).
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Education.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Energy.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Health and Human Services.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of \3\N Interior.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Justice.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Labor.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of State.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Transportation.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of \3\ Treasury.
   Chief Information Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Chief Information Officer, Environmental Protection Agency.
   Chief Information Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Chief Information Officer, Agency for International Development.
   Chief Information Officer, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   Chief Information Officer, General Services Administration.
   Chief Information Officer, National Science Foundation.
   Chief Information Officer, Nuclear Regulatory Agency.
   Chief Information Officer, Office of Personnel Management.
   Chief Information Officer, Small Business Administration.
   Inspector General, United States Postal Service.
   Assistant Directors of Central Intelligence (3).
   General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency.
