   Level V of the Executive Schedule applies to the following positions, for which the annual rate of basic pay shall be the rate determined with respect to such level under chapter 11 of title 2, as adjusted by section 5318 of this title:
   Administrator, Bonneville Power Administration, Department of the Interior.
   Administrator of the National Capital Transportation Agency.
   Associate Administrators of the Small Business Administration (4).
   Associate Administrators, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (7).
   Associate Deputy Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Deputy Associate Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Archivist of the United States.
   Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Administration.
   Assistant Attorney General for Administration.
   Assistant and Science Adviser to the Secretary of the Interior.
   Chairman, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice.
   Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs, Department of Defense.
   Chairman of the Renegotiation Board.
   Chairman of the Subversive Activities Control Board.
   Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury.
   Commissioner, Federal Supply Service, General Services Administration.
   Director, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior.
   Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
   Commissioners, Indian Claims Commission (5).
   Commissioner of Patents, Department of Commerce.
   Commissioner, Public Buildings Service, General Services Administration.
   Commissioner of Reclamation, Department of the Interior.
   Commissioner of Vocational Rehabilitation, Department of Health and Human Services.
   Commissioner of Welfare, Department of Health and Human Services.
   Director, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Department of Defense.
   Director, Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior.
   Director, Geological Survey, Department of the Interior.
   Deputy Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Department of the Treasury.
   Deputy Director, Policy and Plans, United States Information Agency.
   Deputy General Counsel, Department of Defense.
   Associate Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
   Associate Director for Volunteers, Peace Corps.
   Associate Director for Program Development and Operations, Peace Corps.
   Assistants to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice (2).
   Assistant Directors, Office of Emergency Planning (3).
   Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
   General Counsel of the Agency for International Development.
   General Counsel of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
   General Counsel of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
   General Counsel of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Manpower Administrator, Department of Labor.
   Members, Renegotiation Board.
   Members, Subversive Activities Control Board.
   Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense for Research and Engineering, Department of Defense (4).
   Assistant Administrator of General Services.
   Director, United States Travel Service, Department of Commerce.
   Administrator, Wage and Hour and Public Contracts Division, Department of Labor.
   Assistant Director (Program Planning, Analysis and Research), Office of Economic Opportunity.
   Associate Director (Policy and Plans), United States Information Agency.
   Deputy Director, National Security Agency.
   Director, Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior.
   Director, National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
   National Export Expansion Coordinator, Department of Commerce.
   Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense.
   Staff Director, Commission on Civil Rights.
   Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of Transportation.
   Director, United States National Museum, Smithsonian Institution.
   Director, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Smithsonian Institution.
   Administrator for Economic Development.
   Administrator of the Environmental Science Services Administration.
   Associate Directors of the Office of Personnel Management (5).
   Assistant Federal Highway Administrator.
   Deputy Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
   Director, Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, Department of Justice.
   Vice Presidents, Overseas Private Investment Corporation (3).
   Deputy Administrator, Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation.
   General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
   Executive Director, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
   Additional Officers, Department of Energy (14).
   General Counsel, Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
   Additional officers, Nuclear Regulatory Commission (5).
   Executive Director, Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
   Assistant Administrator for Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Assistant Administrators (3), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   General Counsel, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Members, Federal Labor Relations Authority (2) and its General Counsel.
   Additional officers, Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation (2).
   Additional officers, Office of Management and Budget (6).
   Associate Deputy Secretary, Department of Transportation.
   Chief Scientist, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   Director, Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services.
   Commissioners, United States Parole Commission (8).
   Deputy Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks.
   Assistant Commissioner for Patents.
   Assistant Commissioner for Trademarks.
   Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth, and Families.
   Director, Bureau of Transportation Statistics.
