  (a) Except as provided by subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an individual is not entitled to receive basic pay from more than one position for more than an aggregate of 40 hours of work in one calendar week (Sunday through Saturday).
  (b) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this section, the Office of Personnel Management, subject to the supervision and control of the President, may prescribe regulations under which exceptions may be made to the restrictions in subsection (a) of this section when appropriate authority determines that the exceptions are warranted because personal services otherwise cannot be readily obtained.
  (c)    (1) Unless otherwise authorized by law and except as otherwise provided by paragraph (2) or (4) of this subsection, appropriated funds are not available for payment to an individual of pay from more than one position if the pay of one of the positions is paid by the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or one of the positions is under the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, and if the aggregate gross pay from the positions exceeds $7,724 a year ($10,540, in the case of pay disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate).
    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection, appropriated funds are not available for payment to an individual of pay from more than one position, for each of which the pay is disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, if the aggregate gross pay from those positions exceeds the maximum per annum gross rate of pay authorized to be paid to an employee out of the clerk hire allowance of a Member of the House.
    (3) For the purposes of this subsection, ””gross pay““ means the annual rate of pay (or equivalent thereof in the case of an individual paid on other than an annual basis) received by an individual.
    (4) Paragraph (1) of this subsection does not apply to pay on a when-actually-employed basis received from more than one consultant or expert position if the pay is not received for the same day.
  (d) Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to–
    (1) pay on a when-actually-employed basis received from more than one consultant or expert position if the pay is not received for the same hours of the same day;
    (2) pay consisting of fees paid on other than a time basis;
    (3) pay received by a teacher of the public schools of the District of Columbia for employment in a position during the summer vacation period;
    (4) pay paid by the Tennessee Valley Authority to an employee performing part-time or intermittent work in addition to his normal duties when the Authority considers it to be in the interest of efficiency and economy;
    (5) pay received by an individual holding a position–
      (A) the pay of which is paid by the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives; or
      (B) under the Architect of the Capitol;
    (6) pay paid by the United States Coast Guard to an employee occupying a part-time position of lamplighter; and
    (7) pay within the purview of any of the following statutes:
      (A) section 162 of title 2;
      (B) section 23(b) of title 13;
      (C) section 327 of title 15;
      (D) section 907 of title 20;
      (E) section 873 of title 33; or
      (F) section 631 or 631a of title 31, District of Columbia Code.
         [(G) Repealed. Pub. L. 96–70, title III, § 3302(e)(8), Sept. 27, 1979, 93 Stat. 498.]
  (e)    (1) This section does not apply to an individual employed under sections 174j–1 to 174j–7 or 174k \1\N of title 40.
    (2) Subsection (c) of this section does not apply to pay received by a teacher of the public schools of the District of Columbia for employment in a position during the summer vacation period.
