  (a) T4Consultation by AgenciesK.–An agency may consult with the Administrative Conference of the United States or other public or private individuals or organizations for information and assistance in forming a negotiated rulemaking committee and conducting negotiations on a proposed rule.
  (b) T4Roster of Potential Conveners and FacilitatorsK.–The Administrative Conference of the United States, in consultation with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, shall maintain a roster of individuals who have acted as or are interested in serving as conveners or facilitators in negotiated rulemaking proceedings. The roster shall include individuals from government agencies and private groups, and shall be made available upon request. Agencies may also use rosters maintained by other public or private individuals or organizations.
  (c) T4Procedures To Obtain Conveners and Facilitators.–
    (1) T4ProceduresK.–The Administrative Conference of the United States shall develop procedures which permit agencies to obtain the services of conveners and facilitators on an expedited basis.
    (2) T4Payment for servicesK.–Payment for the services of conveners or facilitators shall be made by the agency using the services, unless the Chairman of the Administrative Conference agrees to pay for such services under subsection (f).
  (d) T4Compilation of Data on Negotiated Rulemaking; Report to Congress.–
    (1) T4Compilation of dataK.–The Administrative Conference of the United States shall compile and maintain data related to negotiated rulemaking and shall act as a clearinghouse to assist agencies and parties participating in negotiated rulemaking proceedings.
    (2) T4Submission of information by agenciesK.–Each agency engaged in negotiated rulemaking shall provide to the Administrative Conference of the United States a copy of any reports submitted to the agency by negotiated rulemaking committees under section 566 and such additional information as necessary to enable the Administrative Conference of the United States to comply with this subsection.
    (3) T4Reports to congressK.–The Administrative Conference of the United States shall review and analyze the reports and information received under this subsection and shall transmit a biennial report to the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the appropriate committees of the House of Representatives that–
      (A) provides recommendations for effective use by agencies of negotiated rulemaking; and
      (B) describes the nature and amounts of expenditures made by the Administrative Conference of the United States to accomplish the purposes of this subchapter.
  (e) T4Training in Negotiated RulemakingK.–The Administrative Conference of the United States is authorized to provide training in negotiated rulemaking techniques and procedures for personnel of the Federal Government either on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis. Such training may be extended to private individuals on a reimbursable basis.
  (f) T4Payment of Expenses of AgenciesK.–The Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States is authorized to pay, upon request of an agency, all or part of the expenses of establishing a negotiated rulemaking committee and conducting a negotiated rulemaking. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to–
    (1) the costs of conveners and facilitators;
    (2) the expenses of committee members determined by the agency to be eligible for assistance under section 568(c); and
    (3) training costs.
       Determinations with respect to payments under this section shall be at the discretion of such Chairman in furthering the use by Federal agencies of negotiated rulemaking.
  (g) T4Use of Funds of the ConferenceK.–The Administrative Conference of the United States may apply funds received under section 595(c)(12) of this title to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
