  (a) An agency shall pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government, a per diem allowance or the actual subsistence expenses, or a combination thereof, of the immediate family of the employee for en route travel of the immediate family between the employee“s old and new official stations.
  (b)    (1) An agency may pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government between official stations located within the United States–
      (A) the expenses of transportation of the employee and the employee“s spouse for travel to seek permanent residence quarters at a new official station; and
      (B) either–
        (i) a per diem allowance or the actual subsistence expenses (or a combination of both); or
        (ii) an amount for subsistence expenses.
    (2) Expenses may be allowed under paragraph (1) only for one round trip in connection with each change of station of the employee.
  (c)    (1) An agency may pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government–
      (A) actual subsistence expenses of the employee and the employee“s immediate family for a period of up to 60 days while the employee or family is occupying temporary quarters when the new official station is located within the United States; or
      (B) an amount for subsistence expenses instead of the actual subsistence expenses authorized in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
    (2) The period authorized in paragraph (1) of this subsection for payment of expenses for residence in temporary quarters may be extended up to an additional 60 days if the head of the agency concerned or the designee of such head of the agency determines that there are compelling reasons for the continued occupancy of temporary quarters.
    (3) The regulations implementing paragraph (1)(A) shall prescribe daily rates and amounts for subsistence expenses per individual.
  (d)    (1) An agency shall pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government, expenses of the sale of the residence (or the settlement of an unexpired lease) of the employee at the old official station and purchase of a residence at the new official station that are required to be paid by the employee, when the old and new official stations are located within the United States.
    (2) An agency shall pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government from a post of duty located outside the United States to an official station within the United States (other than the official station within the United States from which the employee was transferred when assigned to the foreign tour of duty)–
      (A) expenses required to be paid by the employee for the sale of the residence (or the settlement of an unexpired lease) of the employee at the old official station from which the employee was transferred when the employee was assigned to the post of duty located outside the United States; and
      (B) expenses required to be paid by the employee for the purchase of a residence at the new official station within the United States.
    (3) Reimbursement of expenses under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall not be allowed for any sale (or settlement of an unexpired lease) or purchase transaction that occurs prior to official notification that the employee“s return to the United States would be to an official station other than the official station from which the employee was transferred when assigned to the post of duty outside the United States.
    (4) Reimbursement for brokerage fees on the sale of the residence and other expenses under this subsection may not exceed those customarily charged in the locality where the residence is located.
    (5) Reimbursement may not be made under this subsection for losses incurred by the employee on the sale of the residence.
    (6) This subsection applies regardless of whether title to the residence or the unexpired lease is–
      (A) in the name of the employee alone;
      (B) in the joint names of the employee and a member of the employee“s immediate family; or
      (C) in the name of a member of the employee“s immediate family alone.
    (7)      (A) In connection with the sale of the residence at the old official station, reimbursement under this subsection shall not exceed 10 percent of the sale price.
      (B) In connection with the purchase of a residence at the new official station, reimbursement under this subsection shall not exceed 5 percent of the purchase price.
    (8) An agency may pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government expenses of property management services, instead of expenses under paragraph (2) or (3) of this subsection for sale of the employee“s residence, when the agency determines that such transfer is advantageous and cost-effective for the Government.
  (e) An agency may pay to or on behalf of an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government, the expenses of property management services when the employee transfers to a post of duty outside the United States. Such payment shall terminate upon return of the employee to an official station within the United States.
  (f)    (1) Subject to paragraph (2), an employee who is reimbursed under subsections (a) through (e) of this section or section 5724(a) of this title is entitled to an amount for miscellaneous expenses–
      (A) not to exceed two weeks“ basic pay, if such employee has an immediate family; or
      (B) not to exceed one week“s basic pay, if such employee does not have an immediate family.
    (2) Amounts paid under paragraph (1) may not exceed amounts determined at the maximum rate payable for a position at GS–13 of the General Schedule.
  (g) A former employee separated by reason of reduction in force or transfer of function who within one year after the separation is reemployed by a nontemporary appointment at a different geographical location from that where the separation occurred, may be allowed and paid the expenses authorized by sections 5724, 5725, 5726(b), and 5727 of this title, and may receive the benefits authorized by subsections (a) through (f) of this section, in the same manner as though the employee had been transferred in the interest of the Government without a break in service to the location of reemployment from the location where separated.
  (h) Payments for subsistence expenses, including amounts in lieu of per diem or actual subsistence expenses or a combination thereof, authorized under this section may not exceed the maximum payment allowed under regulations which implement section 5702 of this title.
  (i) Subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be implemented under regulations issued under section 5738 of this title.
  (j) For purposes of subsections (c), (d), and (e), the term ””United States““ includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the territories and possessions of the United States, and the areas and installations in the Republic of Panama that are made available to the United States pursuant to the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements (as described in section 3(a) of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 3602(a))).
