  (a) T4Allowance for Family Members and Certain OthersK.–(1) Under uniform regulations prescribed by the heads of agencies, travel and transportation described in subsection (d) may be provided for not more than 3 family members of an employee described in subsection (b).
  (2) In addition to the family members authorized to be provided travel and transportation under paragraph (1), the head of an agency may provide travel and transportation described in subsection (d) to an attendant to accompany a family member described in subsection (b) if the head of an agency determines–
    (A) the family member to be accompanied is unable to travel unattended because of age, physical condition, or other reason determined by the head of the agency; and
    (B) no other family member who is eligible for travel and transportation under subsection (a) is able to serve as an attendant for the family member.
  (3) If no family member of an employee described in subsection (b) is able to travel to the repatriation site of the employee, travel and transportation described in subsection (d) may be provided to not more than 2 persons related to and selected by the employee.
  (b) T4Covered EmployeesK.–An employee described in this subsection is an employee (as defined in section 2105 of this title) who–
    (1) was held captive, as determined by the head of an agency concerned; and
    (2) is repatriated to a site inside or outside the United States.
  (c) T4Eligible Family MembersK.–In this section, the term ””family member““ has the meaning given the term in section 411h(b) of title 37.
  (d) T4Travel and Transportation AuthorizedK.–(1) The transportation authorized by subsection (a) is round-trip transportation between the home of the family member (or home of the attendant or person provided transportation under paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a), as the case may be) and the location of the repatriation site at which the employee is located.
  (2) In addition to the transportation authorized by subsection (a), the head of an agency may provide a per diem allowance or reimbursement for the actual and necessary expenses of the travel, or a combination thereof, but not to exceed the rates established for such allowances and expenses under section 404(d) of title 37.
  (3) The transportation authorized by subsection (a) may be provided by any of the means described in section 411h(d)(1) of title 37.
  (4) An allowance under this subsection may be paid in advance.
  (5) Reimbursement payable under this subsection may not exceed the cost of government-procured round-trip air travel.
