  (a) An employee is entitled to sick leave with pay which accrues on the basis of one-half day for each full biweekly pay period, except that sick leave with pay accrues to a member of the Firefighting Division of the Fire Department of the District of Columbia on the basis of two-fifths of a day for each full biweekly pay period.
  (b) Sick leave provided by this section, which is not used by an employee, accumulates for use in succeeding years.
  (c) Sick leave provided by this section may be used for purposes relating to the adoption of a child.
  (d) When required by the exigencies of the situation, a maximum of 30 days sick leave with pay may be advanced for serious disability or ailment, or for purposes relating to the adoption of a child, except that a maximum of 24 days sick leave with pay may be advanced to a member of the Firefighting Division of the Fire Department of the District of Columbia.
  (d)    (1) \1\N For the purpose of this subsection, the term ””family member““ shall have such meaning as the Office of Personnel Management shall by regulation prescribe, except that such term shall include any individual who meets the definition given that term, for purposes of the leave transfer program under subchapter III, under regulations prescribed by the Office (as in effect on January 1, 1993).
    (2) Subject to paragraph (3) and in addition to any other allowable purpose, sick leave may be used by an employee–
      (A) to give care or otherwise attend to a family member having an illness, injury, or other condition which, if an employee had such condition, would justify the use of sick leave by such an employee; or
      (B) for purposes relating to the death of a family member, including to make arrangements for or attend the funeral of such family member.
    (3)      (A) Sick leave may be used by an employee for the purposes provided under paragraph (2) only to the extent the amount used for such purposes does not exceed–
        (i) 40 hours in any year, plus
        (ii) up to an additional 64 hours in any year, but only to the extent the use of such additional hours does not cause the amount of sick leave to the employee“s credit to fall below 80 hours.
      (B) In the case of a part-time employee or an employee on an uncommon tour of duty, the Office of Personnel Management shall establish limitations that are proportional to those prescribed under subparagraph (A).
    (4)      (A) This subsection shall be effective during the 3-year period that begins upon the expiration of the 2-month period that begins on the date of the enactment of this subsection.
      (B) Not later than 6 months before the date on which this subsection is scheduled to cease to be effective, the Office shall submit a report to Congress in which it shall evaluate the operation of this subsection and make recommendations as to whether or not this subsection should be continued beyond such date.
