  (a) Subject to the provisions of this section, this subchapter applies to a member of, or applicant for membership in, the Reserve Officers“ Training Corps of the Army, Navy, or Air Force who suffers an injury, disability, or death incurred in line of duty–
    (1) while engaged in a flight or in flight instruction under chapter 103 of title 10; or
    (2) while performing authorized travel to or from, or while attending, training or a practice cruise under chapter 103 of title 10.
  (b) For the purpose of this section, an injury is incurred in line of duty only if it is the proximate result of the performance of military training by the member concerned, or of his travel to or from that training, during the periods specified by subsection (a)(2) of this section. A member or applicant for membership who contracts a disease or illness which is the proximate result of the performance of training during the periods specified by subsection (a)(2) of this section is considered for the purpose of this section to have been injured in line of duty during that period. Subject to review by the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of the military department concerned, under regulations prescribed by him, shall determine whether or not an injury, disease, or illness was incurred or contracted in line of duty and was the proximate result of the performance of military training by the member concerned or of his travel to or from that military training.
  (c) In computing the compensation payable under this section, the monthly pay received by the injured or deceased individual, in cash and kind, is deemed $150.
  (d) The Secretary of the military department concerned shall cooperate fully with the Department of Labor in the prompt investigation and prosecution of a case involving the legal liability of a third party other than the United States.
  (e) An individual may not receive disability benefits under this section while on active duty with the armed forces, but these benefits may be reinstated when the individual is released from that active duty.
  (f) Expenses incurred by a military department in providing hospitalization, medical and surgical care, necessary transportation incident to that hospitalization or medical and surgical care, or in connection with a funeral and burial on behalf of an individual covered by subsection (a) of this section shall be reimbursed by the Secretary of Labor from the Employees“ Compensation Fund in accordance with this subchapter. However, reimbursement may not be made for hospitalization or medical or surgical care provided an individual by a military department in a facility of a military department.
  (g) For purposes of this section, the term ””applicant for membership““ includes a student enrolled, during a semester or other enrollment term, in a course which is part of Reserve Officers“ Training Corps instruction at an educational institution.
