  (a) An air traffic controller who is otherwise eligible for immediate retirement under section 8412(e) shall be separated from the service on the last day of the month in which that air traffic controller becomes 56 years of age or completes 20 years of service if then over that age. The Secretary, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, may exempt a controller having exceptional skills and experience as a controller from the automatic separation provisions of this subsection until that controller becomes 61 years of age. The Secretary shall notify the controller in writing of the date of separation at least 60 days before that date. Action to separate the controller is not effective, without the consent of the controller, until the last day of the month in which the 60-day notice expires. For purposes of this subsection, the term ””air traffic controller““ or ””controller““ has the meaning given to it under section 8401(35)(A).
  (b)    (1) A law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, or customs and border protection officer who is otherwise eligible for immediate retirement under section 8412(d) shall be separated from the service on the last day of the month in which that law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, or customs and border protection officer \1\N as the case may be, becomes 57 years of age or completes 20 years of service if then over that age. If the head of the agency judges that the public interest so requires, that agency head may exempt such an employee from automatic separation under this subsection until that employee becomes 60 years of age. The employing office shall notify the employee in writing of the date of separation at least 60 days before that date. Action to separate the employee is not effective, without the consent of the employee, until the last day of the month in which the 60-day notice expires.
    (2) \2\N In the case of employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the second sentence of paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting ””65 years of age““ for ””60 years of age““. The authority to grant exemptions in accordance with the preceding sentence shall cease to be available after December 31, 2009.
  (2) \2\ In the case of employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the second sentence of paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting ””65 years of age““ for ””60 years of age““. The Federal Bureau of Investigation may not grant more than 50 exemptions in any fiscal year in accordance with the preceding sentence, and the authority to grant such exemptions shall cease to be available after September 30, 2007.
  (c) A member of the Capitol Police who is otherwise eligible for immediate retirement under section 8412(d) shall be separated from the service on the last day of the month in which such member becomes 57 years of age or completes 20 years of service if then over that age. The Capitol Police Board, when in its judgment the public interest so requires, may exempt such a member from automatic separation under this subsection until that member becomes 60 years of age. The Board shall notify the member in writing of the date of separation at least 60 days before that date. Action to separate the member is not effective, without the consent of the member, until the last day of the month in which the 60-day notice expires.
  (d) A member of the Supreme Court Police who is otherwise eligible for immediate retirement under section 8412(d) shall be separated from the service on the last day of the month in which such member becomes 57 years of age or completes 20 years of service if then over that age. The Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States, when in his judgment the public interest so requires, may exempt such a member from automatic separation under this subsection until that member becomes 60 years of age. The Marshal shall notify the member in writing of the date of separation at least 60 days before the date. Action to separate the member is not effective, without the consent of the member, until the last day of the month in which the 60-day notice expires.
  (e) The President, by Executive order, may exempt an employee (other than a member of the Capitol Police or Supreme Court Police) from automatic separation under this section if the President determines the public interest so requires.
