  (a) There is established in the Executive branch of the Government a Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
  (b) The Board shall be composed of–
    (1) 3 members appointed by the President, of whom 1 shall be designated by the President as Chairman; and
    (2) 2 members appointed by the President, of whom–
      (A) 1 shall be appointed by the President after taking into consideration the recommendation made by the Speaker of the House of Representatives in consultation with the minority leader of the House of Representatives; and
      (B) 1 shall be appointed by the President after taking into consideration the recommendation made by the majority leader of the Senate in consultation with the minority leader of the Senate.
  (c) Except as provided in section 311 of the Federal Employees“ Retirement System Act of 1986, appointments under subsection (a) shall be made by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
  (d) Members of the Board shall have substantial experience, training, and expertise in the management of financial investments and pension benefit plans.
  (e)    (1) Except as provided in section 311 of the Federal Employees“ Retirement System Act of 1986, a member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of 4 years, except that of the members first appointed (other than the members appointed under such section)–
      (A) the Chairman shall be appointed for a term of 4 years;
      (B) the members appointed under subsection (b)(2) shall be appointed for terms of 3 years; and
      (C) the remaining members shall be appointed for terms of 2 years.
    (2)      (A) A vacancy on the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made and shall be subject to any conditions which applied with respect to the original appointment.
      (B) An individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member replaced.
    (3) The term of any member shall not expire before the date on which the member“s successor takes office.
  (f) The Board shall–
    (1) establish policies for–
      (A) the investment and management of the Thrift Savings Fund; and
      (B) the administration of subchapter III of this chapter;
    (2) review the performance of investments made for the Thrift Savings Fund; and
    (3) review and approve the budget of the Board.
  (g)    (1) The Board may–
      (A) adopt, alter, and use a seal;
      (B) except as provided in paragraph (2), direct the Executive Director to take such action as the Board considers appropriate to carry out the provisions of this subchapter and subchapter III of this chapter and the policies of the Board;
      (C) upon the concurring votes of four members, remove the Executive Director from office for good cause shown; and
      (D) take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Board.
    (2) Except in the case of investments required by section 8438 of this title to be invested in securities of the Government, the Board may not direct the Executive Director to invest or to cause to be invested any sums in the Thrift Savings Fund in a specific asset or to dispose of or cause to be disposed of any specific asset of such Fund.
  (h) The members of the Board shall discharge their responsibilities solely in the interest of participants and beneficiaries under this subchapter and subchapter III of this chapter.
  (i) The Board shall prepare and submit to the President, and, at the same time, to the appropriate committees of Congress, an annual budget of the expenses and other items relating to the Board which shall be included as a separate item in the budget required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 1105 of title 31.
  (j) The Board may submit to the President, and, at the same time, shall submit to each House of the Congress, any legislative recommendations of the Board relating to any of its functions under this title or any other provision of law.
