  (a) The Board shall establish an Employee Thrift Advisory Council. The Council shall be composed of 14 members appointed by the Chairman of the Board in accordance with subsection (b).
  (b) The Chairman shall appoint 14 members of the Council, of whom–
    (1) 4 shall be appointed to represent the respective labor organizations representing (as exclusive representatives) the first, second, third, and fourth largest numbers of individuals subject to chapter 71 of this title;
    (2) 2 shall be appointed to represent the respective labor organizations which have been accorded exclusive recognition under section 1203(a) of title 39 representing the largest and second largest numbers of individuals employed by the United States Postal Service;
    (3) 1 shall be appointed to represent the labor organization which has been accorded exclusive recognition under section 1203(a) of title 39 representing the largest number of individuals employed by the United States Postal Service as rural letter carriers;
    (4) 2 shall be appointed to represent the respective managerial organizations (other than an organization described in paragraph (5)) which consult with the United States Postal Service under section 1004(b) of title 39 and which represent the largest and second largest numbers of individuals employed by the United States Postal Service as managerial personnel;
    (5) 1 shall be appointed to represent the supervisors“ organization as defined in section 1004(h) of title 39;
    (6) 1 shall be appointed to represent employee organizations having as a purpose promoting the interests of women in Government service;
    (7) 1 shall be appointed to represent the organization representing the largest number of individuals receiving annuities under this chapter or chapter 83 of this title;
    (8) 1 shall be appointed to represent the organization representing the largest number of supervisors and management officials (as defined by section 7103(a)); and
    (9) 1 shall be appointed to represent the organization representing the largest number of members of the Senior Executive Service.
  (c)    (1) The Chairman of the Board shall designate 1 member of the Council to serve as head of the Council.
    (2) A member of the Council shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.
    (3)      (A) A vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made and shall be subject to any conditions which applied with respect to the original appointment.
      (B) An individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member replaced.
      (C) The term of any member shall not expire before the date on which the member“s successor takes office.
  (d) The Council shall act by resolution of a majority of the members.
  (e) The Council shall–
    (1) advise the Board and the Executive Director on matters relating to–
      (A) investment policies for the Thrift Savings Fund; and
      (B) the administration of this subchapter and subchapter III of this chapter; and
    (2) perform such other duties as the Board may direct with respect to investment funds established in accordance with subchapter III of this chapter.
  (f) Section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the Council.
