   For purposes of this chapter:
  (1) T4EmployeeK.–The term ””employee““ means–
    (A) an employee as defined by section 8901(1);
    (B) an individual described in section 2105(e);
    (C) an individual employed by the Tennessee Valley Authority; and
    (D) an employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense described in section 2105(c).
  (2) T4AnnuitantK.–The term ””annuitant““ means–
    (A) any individual who would satisfy the requirements of paragraph (3) of section 8901 if, for purposes of such paragraph, the term ””employee““ were considered to have the meaning given to it under paragraph (1);
    (B) any individual who–
      (i) satisfies all requirements for title to an annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83, chapter 84, or any other retirement system for employees of the Government (whether based on the service of such individual or otherwise), and files application therefor;
      (ii) is at least 18 years of age; and
      (iii) would not (but for this subparagraph) otherwise satisfy the requirements of this paragraph; and
    (C) any former employee who, on the basis of his or her service, would meet all requirements for being considered an ””annuitant““ within the meaning of subchapter III of chapter 83, chapter 84, or any other retirement system for employees of the Government, but for the fact that such former employee has not attained the minimum age for title to annuity.
  (3) T4Member of the uniformed servicesK.–The term ””member of the uniformed services““ means a member of the uniformed services, other than a retired member of the uniformed services, who is–
    (A) on active duty or full-time National Guard duty for a period of more than 30 days; or
    (B) a member of the Selected Reserve.
  (4) T4Retired member of the uniformed servicesK.–The term ””retired member of the uniformed services““ means a member or former member of the uniformed services entitled to retired or retainer pay, and a member who has been transferred to the Retired Reserve and who would be entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10 but for not having attained the age of 60 and who satisfies such eligibility requirements as the Office of Personnel Management prescribes under section 9008.
  (5) T4Qualified relativeK.–The term ””qualified relative““ means each of the following:
    (A) The spouse of an individual described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4).
    (B) A parent, stepparent, or parent-in-law of an individual described in paragraph (1) or (3).
    (C) A child (including an adopted child, a stepchild, or, to the extent the Office of Personnel Management by regulation provides, a foster child) of an individual described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4), if such child is at least 18 years of age.
    (D) An individual having such other relationship to an individual described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) as the Office may by regulation prescribe.
  (6) T4Eligible individualK.–The term ””eligible individual““ refers to an individual described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5).
  (7) T4Qualified carrierK.–The term ””qualified carrier““ means an insurance company (or consortium of insurance companies) that is licensed to issue long-term care insurance in all States, taking any subsidiaries of such a company into account (and, in the case of a consortium, considering the member companies and any subsidiaries thereof, collectively).
  (8) T4StateK.–The term ””State““ includes the District of Columbia.
  (9) T4Qualified long-term care insurance contractK.–The term ””qualified long-term care insurance contract““ has the meaning given such term by section 7702B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
  (10) T4Appropriate secretaryK.–The term ””appropriate Secretary““ means–
    (A) except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the Secretary of Defense;
    (B) with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service of the Navy, the Secretary of Transportation;
    (C) with respect to the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Secretary of Commerce; and
    (D) with respect to the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
