  (a) Establishment of House Services Revolving Fund
     There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a revolving fund for the House of Representatives to be known as the ””House Services Revolving Fund““ (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Revolving Fund““), consisting of funds deposited by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives from all amounts received by the House of Representatives with respect to the following activities:
    (1) The operation of the House Barber Shop.
    (2) The operation of the House Beauty Shop.
    (3) The operation of the House Restaurant System (including vending operations).
    (4) The provision of mail services to entities which are not part of the House of Representatives.
    (5) The payment of fees for the use of the exercise facility described in section 103(a).
  (b) Use of amounts in Fund
     Amounts in the Revolving Funds \1\N shall be used for any purpose designated by the Chief Administrative Officer which is approved by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  (c) Transfer authority
     The Revolving Fund shall be treated as a category of allowances and expenses for purposes of section 95b(a) of this title.
  (d) Termination and transfer of existing funds and accounts
    (1) In general
       Each fund and account specified in paragraph (2) is hereby terminated, and the balance of each such fund and account is hereby transferred to the Revolving Fund.
    (2) Funds and accounts specified
       The funds and accounts referred to in paragraph (1) are as follows:
      (A) The revolving fund for the House Barber Shop, established by the paragraph under the heading ””HOUSE BARBER SHOPS REVOLVING FUND““ in the matter relating to the House of Representatives in chapter III of title I of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1975 (Public Law 93–554; 88 Stat. 1776).
      (B) The revolving funds for the House Beauty Shop, established by the matter under the heading ””T4house beauty shopK““ in the matter relating to administrative provisions for the House of Representatives in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1970 (Public Law 91–145; 83 Stat. 347).
      (C) The special deposit account established for the House of Representatives Restaurant by section 208 of the First Supplemental Civil Functions Appropriation Act, 1941, or any successor fund or account established for the receipt of revenues of the House Restaurant System.
  (e) Effective date
     This section shall take effect October 1, 2004, and shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2005 and each succeeding fiscal year.
