  (a) In general
     There is established, as an office of the Senate, the Office of Senate Fair Employment Practices (referred to in this chapter as the ””Office““), which shall–
    (1) administer the processes set forth in sections 1205 through 1207 of this title;
    (2) implement programs for the Senate to heighten awareness of employee rights in order to prevent violations from occurring.
  (b) Director
    (1) In general
       The Office shall be headed by a Director (referred to in this chapter as the ””Director““) who shall be appointed by the President pro tempore, upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader in consultation with the Minority Leader. The appointment shall be made without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the position. The Director shall be appointed for a term of service which shall expire at the end of the Congress following the Congress during which the Director is appointed. A Director may be reappointed at the termination of any term of service. The President pro tempore, upon the joint recommendation of the Majority Leader in consultation with the Minority Leader, may remove the Director at any time.
    (2) Salary
       The President pro tempore, upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader in consultation with the Minority Leader, shall establish the rate of pay for the Director. The salary of the Director may not be reduced during the employment of the Director and shall be increased at the same time and in the same manner as fixed statutory salary rates within the Senate are adjusted as a result of annual comparability increases.
    (3) Annual budget
       The Director shall submit an annual budget request for the Office to the Committee on Appropriations.
    (4) Appointment of Director
       The first Director shall be appointed and begin service within 90 days after November 21, 1991, and thereafter the Director shall be appointed and begin service within 30 days after the beginning of the session of the Congress immediately following the termination of a Director“s term of service or within 60 days after a vacancy occurs in the position.
  (c) Staff of Office
    (1) Appointment
       The Director may appoint and fix the compensation of such additional staff, including hearing officers, as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
    (2) Detailees
       The Director may, with the prior consent of the Government department or agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis the services of any such department or agency, including the services of members or personnel of the General Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board.
    (3) Consultants
       In carrying out the functions of the Office, the Director may procure the temporary (not to exceed 1 year) or intermittent services of individual consultants, or organizations thereof, in the same manner and under the same conditions as a standing committee of the Senate may procure such services under section 72a(i) of this title.
  (d) Expenses of Office
     In fiscal year 1992, the expenses of the Office shall be paid out of the Contingent Fund of the Senate from the appropriation account Miscellaneous Items. Beginning in fiscal year 1993, and for each fiscal year thereafter, there is authorized to be appropriated for the expenses of the Office such sums as shall be necessary to carry out its functions. In all cases, expenses shall be paid out of the Contingent Fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by the Director, except that a voucher shall not be required for–
    (1) the disbursement of salaries of employees who are paid at an annual rate;
    (2) the payment of expenses for telecommunications services provided by the Telecommunications Department, Sergeant at Arms, United States Senate;
    (3) the payment of expenses for stationery supplies purchased through the Keeper of the Stationery, United States Senate;
    (4) the payment of expenses for postage to the Postmaster, United States Senate; and
    (5) the payment of metered charges on copying equipment provided by the Sergeant at Arms, United States Senate.
       The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to advance such sums as may be necessary to defray the expenses incurred in carrying out this chapter. Expenses of the Office shall include authorized travel for personnel of the Office.
  (e) Rules of Office
     The Director shall adopt rules governing the procedures of the Office, including the procedures of hearing boards, which rules shall be submitted to the President pro tempore for publication in the Congressional Record. The rules may be amended in the same manner. The Director may consult with the Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States on the adoption of rules.
  (f) Representation by Senate Legal Counsel
     For the purpose of representation by the Senate Legal Counsel, the Office shall be deemed a committee, within the meaning of title VII of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (2 U.S.C. 288, et seq.).
