  (a) In general
    (1) Application
       The rights, protections, and remedies provided pursuant to section 1202 of this title shall apply with respect to employment of Presidential appointees.
    (2) Enforcement by administrative action
       Any Presidential appointee may file a complaint alleging a violation, not later than 180 days after the occurrence of the alleged violation, with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or such other entity as is designated by the President by Executive Order, which, in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in sections 554 through 557 of title 5, shall determine whether a violation has occurred and shall set forth its determination in a final order. If the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or such other entity as is designated by the President pursuant to this section, determines that a violation has occurred, the final order shall also provide for appropriate relief.
    (3) Judicial review
      (A) In general
         Any party aggrieved by a final order under paragraph (2) may petition for review by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
      (B) Law applicable
         Chapter 158 of title 28 shall apply to a review under this section except that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or such other entity as the President may designate under paragraph (2) shall be an ””agency““ as that term is used in chapter 158 of title 28.
      (C) Standard of review
         To the extent necessary to decision and when presented, the reviewing court shall decide all relevant questions of law and interpret constitutional and statutory provisions. The court shall set aside a final order under paragraph (2) if it is determined that the order was–
        (i) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not consistent with law;
        (ii) not made consistent with required procedures; or
        (iii) unsupported by substantial evidence.
         In making the foregoing determinations, the court shall review the whole record or those parts of it cited by a party, and due account shall be taken of the rule of prejudicial error.
      (D) Attorney“s fees
         If the presidential appointee is the prevailing party in a proceeding under this section, attorney“s fees may be allowed by the court in accordance with the standards prescribed under section 2000e–5(k) of title 42.
  (b) Presidential appointee
     For purposes of this section, the term ””Presidential appointee““ means any officer or employee, or an applicant seeking to become an officer or employee, in any unit of the Executive Branch, including the Executive Office of the President, whether appointed by the President or by any other appointing authority in the Executive Branch, who is not already entitled to bring an action under any of the statutes referred to in section 1202 of this title but does not include any individual–
    (1) whose appointment is made by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;
    (2) who is appointed to an advisory committee, as defined in section 3(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.); or
    (3) who is a member of the uniformed services.
