  (a) Application  
     The rights, protections, and remedies provided pursuant to section 1202 and 1207(h) of this title shall apply with respect to employment of any individual chosen or appointed, by a person elected to public office in any State or political subdivision of any State by the qualified voters thereof–  
    (1) to be a member of the elected official“s personal staff;  
    (2) to serve the elected official on the policymaking level; or  
    (3) to serve the elected official as an immediate advisor with respect to the exercise of the constitutional or legal powers of the office.  
  (b) Enforcement by administrative action  
    (1) In general  
       Any individual referred to in subsection (a) of this section may file a complaint alleging a violation, not later than 180 days after the occurrence of the alleged violation, with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which, in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in sections 554 through 557 of title 5, shall determine whether a violation has occurred and shall set forth its determination in a final order. If the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission determines that a violation has occurred, the final order shall also provide for appropriate relief.  
    (2) Referral to State and local authorities  
      (A) Application  
         Section 2000e–5(d) of title 42 shall apply with respect to any proceeding under this section.  
      (B) Definition  
         For purposes of the application described in subparagraph (A), the term ””any charge filed by a member of the Commission alleging an unlawful employment practice““ means a complaint filed under this section.  
  (c) Judicial review  
     Any party aggrieved by a final order under subsection (b) of this section may obtain a review of such order under chapter 158 of title 28. For the purpose of this review, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall be an ””agency““ as that term is used in chapter 158 of title 28.  
  (d) Standard of review  
     To the extent necessary to decision and when presented, the reviewing court shall decide all relevant questions of law and interpret constitutional and statutory provisions. The court shall set aside a final order under subsection (b) of this section if it is determined that the order was–  
    (1) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not consistent with law;  
    (2) not made consistent with required procedures; or  
    (3) unsupported by substantial evidence.
       In making the foregoing determinations, the court shall review the whole record or those parts of it cited by a party, and due account shall be taken of the rule of prejudicial error.  
  (e) Attorney“s fees  
     If the individual referred to in subsection (a) of this section is the prevailing party in a proceeding under this subsection, attorney“s fees may be allowed by the court in accordance with the standards prescribed under section 2000e–5(k) of title 42.  
