   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, as used in this chapter:
  (1) Board
     The term ””Board““ means the Board of Directors of the Office of Compliance.
  (2) Chair
     The term ””Chair““ means the Chair of the Board of Directors of the Office of Compliance.
  (3) Covered employee
     The term ””covered employee““ means any employee of–
    (A) the House of Representatives;
    (B) the Senate;
    (C) the Capitol Guide Service;
    (D) the Capitol Police;
    (E) the Congressional Budget Office;
    (F) the Office of the Architect of the Capitol;
    (G) the Office of the Attending Physician;
    (H) the Office of Compliance; or
      (I) the Office of Technology Assessment.
  (4) Employee
     The term ””employee““ includes an applicant for employment and a former employee.
  (5) Employee of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol
     The term ””employee of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol““ includes any employee of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Botanic Garden, or the Senate Restaurants.
  (6) Employee of the Capitol Police
     The term ””employee of the Capitol Police““ includes any member or officer of the Capitol Police.
  (7) Employee of the House of Representatives
     The term ””employee of the House of Representatives““ includes an individual occupying a position the pay for which is disbursed by the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or another official designated by the House of Representatives, or any employment position in an entity that is paid with funds derived from the clerk-hire allowance of the House of Representatives but not any such individual employed by any entity listed in subparagraphs (C) through (I) of paragraph (3).
  (8) Employee of the Senate
     The term ””employee of the Senate““ includes any employee whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, but not any such individual employed by any entity listed in subparagraphs (C) through (I) of paragraph (3).
  (9) Employing office
     The term ””employing office““ means–
    (A) the personal office of a Member of the House of Representatives or of a Senator;
    (B) a committee of the House of Representatives or the Senate or a joint committee;
    (C) any other office headed by a person with the final authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the terms, conditions, or privileges of the employment of an employee of the House of Representatives or the Senate; or
    (D) the Capitol Guide Board, the Capitol Police Board, the Congressional Budget Office, the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Office of the Attending Physician, the Office of Compliance, and the Office of Technology Assessment.
  (10) Executive Director
     The term ””Executive Director““ means the Executive Director of the Office of Compliance.
  (11) General Counsel
     The term ””General Counsel““ means the General Counsel of the Office of Compliance.
  (12) Office
     The term ””Office““ means the Office of Compliance.
