  (a) Polygraph practices prohibited
    (1) In general
       No employing office, irrespective of whether a covered employee works in that employing office, may require a covered employee to take a lie detector test where such a test would be prohibited if required by an employer under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 3 of the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 2002(1), (2), or (3)). In addition, the waiver provisions of section 6(d) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 2005(d)) shall apply to covered employees.
    (2) Definitions
       For purposes of this section, the term ””covered employee““ shall include employees of the General Accounting Office and the Library of Congress and the term ””employing office““ shall include the General Accounting Office and the Library of Congress.
    (3) Capitol Police
       Nothing in this section shall preclude the Capitol Police from using lie detector tests in accordance with regulations under subsection (c) of this section.
  (b) Remedy
     The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) of this section shall be such remedy as would be appropriate if awarded under section 6(c)(1) of the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 2005(c)(1)).
  (c) Regulations to implement section
    (1) In general
       The Board shall, pursuant to section 1384 of this title, issue regulations to implement this section.
    (2) Agency regulations
       The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this section except insofar as the Board may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section.
  (d) Effective date
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be effective 1 year after January 23, 1995.
    (2) General Accounting Office and Library of Congress
       This section shall be effective with respect to the General Accounting Office and the Library of Congress 1 year after transmission to the Congress of the study under section 1371 of this title.
