  (a) Entities subject to this section
     The requirements of this section shall apply to–
    (1) each office of the Senate, including each office of a Senator and each committee;
    (2) each office of the House of Representatives, including each office of a Member of the House of Representatives and each committee;
    (3) each joint committee of the Congress;
    (4) the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services;
    (5) the Capitol Police;
    (6) the Congressional Budget Office;
    (7) the Office of the Architect of the Capitol (including the Botanic Garden);
    (8) the Office of the Attending Physician;
    (9) the Office of Compliance; and
    (10) the Office of Technology Assessment.
  (b) Discrimination in public services and accommodations
    (1) Rights and protections
       The rights and protections against discrimination in the provision of public services and accommodations established by sections 201 through 230, 302, 303, and 309 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131–12150, 12182, 12183, and 12189) shall apply to the entities listed in subsection (a) of this section.
    (2) Definitions
       For purposes of the application of title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.) under this section, the term ””public entity““ means any entity listed in subsection (a) of this section that provides public services, programs, or activities.
  (c) Remedy
     The remedy for a violation of subsection (b) of this section shall be such remedy as would be appropriate if awarded under section 203 or 308(a) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12133, 12188(a)), except that, with respect to any claim of employment discrimination asserted by any covered employee, the exclusive remedy shall be under section 1311 of this title.
  (d) Available procedures
    (1) Charge filed with General Counsel
       A qualified individual with a disability, as defined in section 201(2) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131(2)), who alleges a violation of subsection (b) of this section by an entity listed in subsection (a) of this section, may file a charge against any entity responsible for correcting the violation with the General Counsel within 180 days of the occurrence of the alleged violation. The General Counsel shall investigate the charge.
    (2) Mediation
       If, upon investigation under paragraph (1), the General Counsel believes that a violation of subsection (b) of this section may have occurred and that mediation may be helpful in resolving the dispute, the General Counsel may request, but not participate in, mediation under subsections (b) through (d) of section 1403 of this title between the charging individual and any entity responsible for correcting the alleged violation.
    (3) Complaint, hearing, Board review
       If mediation under paragraph (2) has not succeeded in resolving the dispute, and if the General Counsel believes that a violation of subsection (b) of this section may have occurred, the General Counsel may file with the Office a complaint against any entity responsible for correcting the violation. The complaint shall be submitted to a hearing officer for decision pursuant to subsections (b) through (h) of section 1405 of this title and any person who has filed a charge under paragraph (1) may intervene as of right, with the full rights of a party. The decision of the hearing officer shall be subject to review by the Board pursuant to section 1406 of this title.
    (4) Judicial review
       A charging individual who has intervened under paragraph (3) or any respondent to the complaint, if aggrieved by a final decision of the Board under paragraph (3), may file a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, pursuant to section 1407 of this title.
    (5) Compliance date
       If new appropriated funds are necessary to comply with an order requiring correction of a violation of subsection (b) of this section, compliance shall take place as soon as possible, but no later than the fiscal year following the end of the fiscal year in which the order requiring correction becomes final and not subject to further review.
  (e) Regulations to implement section
    (1) In general
       The Board shall, pursuant to section 1384 of this title, issue regulations to implement this section.
    (2) Agency regulations
       The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Attorney General and the Secretary of Transportation to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsection (b) of this section except to the extent that the Board may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section.
    (3) Entity responsible for correction
       The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall include a method of identifying, for purposes of this section and for categories of violations of subsection (b) of this section, the entity responsible for correction of a particular violation.
  (f) Periodic inspections; report to Congress; initial study
    (1) Periodic inspections
       On a regular basis, and at least once each Congress, the General Counsel shall inspect the facilities of the entities listed in subsection (a) of this section to ensure compliance with subsection (b) of this section.
    (2) Report
       On the basis of each periodic inspection, the General Counsel shall, at least once every Congress, prepare and submit a report–
      (A) to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, or other entity responsible,\1\N for correcting the violation of this section uncovered by such inspection, and
      (B) containing the results of the periodic inspection, describing any steps necessary to correct any violation of this section, assessing any limitations in accessibility to and usability by individuals with disabilities associated with each violation, and the estimated cost and time needed for abatement.
    (3) Initial period for study and corrective action
       The period from January 23, 1995, until December 31, 1996, shall be available to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol and other entities subject to this section to identify any violations of subsection (b) of this section, to determine the costs of compliance, and to take any necessary corrective action to abate any violations. The Office shall assist the Office of the Architect of the Capitol and other entities listed in subsection (a) of this section by arranging for inspections and other technical assistance at their request. Prior to July 1, 1996, the General Counsel shall conduct a thorough inspection under paragraph (1) and shall submit the report under paragraph (2) for the One Hundred Fourth Congress.
    (4) Detailed personnel
       The Attorney General, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board may, on request of the Executive Director, detail to the Office such personnel as may be necessary to advise and assist the Office in carrying out its duties under this section.
  (g) Omitted
  (h) Effective date
    (1) In general
       Subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be effective on January 1, 1997.
    (2) Government Accountability Office, Government Printing Office, and Library of Congress
       Subsection (g) of this section shall be effective 1 year after transmission to the Congress of the study under section 1371 of this title.
