  (a) Establishment
     There is established, as an independent office within the legislative branch of the Federal Government, the Office of Compliance.
  (b) Board of Directors
     The Office shall have a Board of Directors. The Board shall consist of 5 individuals appointed jointly by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Majority Leader of the Senate, and the Minority Leaders of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Appointments of the first 5 members of the Board shall be completed not later than 90 days after January 23, 1995.
  (c) Chair
     The Chair shall be appointed from members of the Board jointly by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Majority Leader of the Senate, and the Minority Leaders of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
  (d) Board of Directors qualifications
    (1) Specific qualifications
       Selection and appointment of members of the Board shall be without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the Office. Members of the Board shall have training or experience in the application of the rights, protections, and remedies under one or more of the laws made applicable under section 1302 of this title.
    (2) Disqualifications for appointments
      (A) Lobbying
         No individual who engages in, or is otherwise employed in, lobbying of the Congress and who is required under the Federal Regulation of Lobbying Act \1\N to register with the Clerk of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate shall be eligible for appointment to, or service on, the Board.
      (B) Incompatible office
         No member of the Board appointed under subsection (b) of this section may hold or may have held the position of Member of the House of Representatives or Senator, may hold the position of officer or employee of the House of Representatives, Senate, or instrumentality or other entity of the legislative branch, or may have held such a position (other than the position of an officer or employee of the General Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board,\2\N an officer or employee of the Office of Fair Employment Practices of the House of Representatives, or officer or employee of the Office of Senate Fair Employment Practices) within 4 years of the date of appointment.
    (3) Vacancies
       A vacancy on the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (e) Term of office
    (1) In general
       Except as provided in paragraph (2), membership on the Board shall be for 5 years. A member of the Board may be reappointed, but no individual may serve as a member for more than 2 terms.
    (2) First appointments
       Of the members first appointed to the Board–
      (A) 1 shall have a term of office of 3 years,
      (B) 2 shall have a term of office of 4 years, and
      (C) 2 shall have a term of office of 5 years, 1 of whom shall be the Chair,
       as designated at the time of appointment by the persons specified in subsection (b) of this section.
  (f) Removal
    (1) Authority
       Any member of the Board may be removed from office by a majority decision of the appointing authorities described in subsection (b) of this section, but only for–
      (A) disability that substantially prevents the member from carrying out the duties of the member,
      (B) incompetence,
      (C) neglect of duty,
      (D) malfeasance, including a felony or conduct involving moral turpitude, or
      (E) holding an office or employment or engaging in an activity that disqualifies the individual from service as a member of the Board under subsection (d)(2) of this section.
    (2) Statement of reasons for removal
       In removing a member of the Board, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall state in writing to the member of the Board being removed the specific reasons for the removal.
  (g) Compensation
    (1) Per diem
       Each member of the Board shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5 for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Board. The rate of pay of a member may be prorated based on the portion of the day during which the member is engaged in the performance of Board duties.
    (2) Travel expenses
       Each member of the Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, for each day the member is engaged in the performance of duties away from the home or regular place of business of the member.
  (h) Duties
     The Office shall–
    (1) carry out a program of education for Members of Congress and other employing authorities of the legislative branch of the Federal Government respecting the laws made applicable to them and a program to inform individuals of their rights under laws applicable to the legislative branch of the Federal Government;
    (2) in carrying out the program under paragraph (1), distribute the telephone number and address of the Office, procedures for action under subchapter IV of this chapter, and any other information appropriate for distribution, distribute such information to employing offices in a manner suitable for posting, provide such information to new employees of employing offices, distribute such information to the residences of covered employees, and conduct seminars and other activities designed to educate employing offices and covered employees; and
    (3) compile and publish statistics on the use of the Office by covered employees, including the number and type of contacts made with the Office, on the reason for such contacts, on the number of covered employees who initiated proceedings with the Office under this chapter and the result of such proceedings, and on the number of covered employees who filed a complaint, the basis for the complaint, and the action taken on the complaint.
      (i) Congressional oversight
         The Board and the Office shall be subject to oversight (except with respect to the disposition of individual cases) by the Committee on Rules and Administration and the Committee on Governmental Affairs \2\ of the Senate and the Committee on House Oversight \2\ of the House of Representatives.
      (j) Opening of Office
         The Office shall be open for business, including receipt of requests for counseling under section 1402 of this title, not later than 1 year after January 23, 1995.
      (k) Financial disclosure reports
         Members of the Board and officers and employees of the Office shall file the financial disclosure reports required under title I of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 with the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
