  (a) Executive Director
    (1) Appointment and removal
      (A) In general
         The Chair, subject to the approval of the Board, shall appoint and may remove an Executive Director. Selection and appointment of the Executive Director shall be without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the Office. The first Executive Director shall be appointed no later than 90 days after the initial appointment of the Board of Directors.
      (B) Qualifications
         The Executive Director shall be an individual with training or expertise in the application of laws referred to in section 1302(a) of this title.
      (C) Disqualifications
         The disqualifications in section 1381(d)(2) of this title shall apply to the appointment of the Executive Director.
    (2) Compensation
       The Chair may fix the compensation of the Executive Director. The rate of pay for the Executive Director may not exceed the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5.
    (3) Term
       The term of office of the Executive Director shall be a single term of 5 years, except that the first Executive Director shall have a single term of 7 years.
    (4) Duties
       The Executive Director shall serve as the chief operating officer of the Office. Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, the Executive Director shall carry out all of the responsibilities of the Office under this chapter.
  (b) Deputy Executive Directors
    (1) In general
       The Chair, subject to the approval of the Board, shall appoint and may remove a Deputy Executive Director for the Senate and a Deputy Executive Director for the House of Representatives. Selection and appointment of a Deputy Executive Director shall be without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the office. The disqualifications in section 1381(d)(2) of this title shall apply to the appointment of a Deputy Executive Director.
    (2) Term
       The term of office of a Deputy Executive Director shall be a single term of 5 years, except that the first Deputy Executive Directors shall have a single term of 6 years.
    (3) Compensation
       The Chair may fix the compensation of the Deputy Executive Directors. The rate of pay for a Deputy Executive Director may not exceed 96 percent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5.
    (4) Duties
       The Deputy Executive Director for the Senate shall recommend to the Board regulations under section 1384(a)(2)(B)(i) of this title, maintain the regulations and all records pertaining to the regulations, and shall assume such other responsibilities as may be delegated by the Executive Director. The Deputy Executive Director for the House of Representatives shall recommend to the Board the regulations under section 1384(a)(2)(B)(ii) of this title, maintain the regulations and all records pertaining to the regulations, and shall assume such other responsibilities as may be delegated by the Executive Director.
  (c) General Counsel
    (1) In general
       The Chair, subject to the approval of the Board, shall appoint a General Counsel. Selection and appointment of the General Counsel shall be without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the Office. The disqualifications in section 1381(d)(2) of this title shall apply to the appointment of a General Counsel.
    (2) Compensation
       The Chair may fix the compensation of the General Counsel. The rate of pay for the General Counsel may not exceed the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5.
    (3) Duties
       The General Counsel shall–
      (A) exercise the authorities and perform the duties of the General Counsel as specified in this chapter; and
      (B) otherwise assist the Board and the Executive Director in carrying out their duties and powers, including representing the Office in any judicial proceeding under this chapter.
    (4) Attorneys in the office of the General Counsel
       The General Counsel shall appoint, and fix the compensation of, and may remove, such additional attorneys as may be necessary to enable the General Counsel to perform the General Counsel“s duties.
    (5) Term
       The term of office of the General Counsel shall be a single term of 5 years.
    (6) Removal
      (A) Authority
         The General Counsel may be removed from office by the Chair but only for–
        (i) disability that substantially prevents the General Counsel from carrying out the duties of the General Counsel,
        (ii) incompetence,
        (iii) neglect of duty,
        (iv) malfeasance, including a felony or conduct involving moral turpitude, or
        (v) holding an office or employment or engaging in an activity that disqualifies the individual from service as the General Counsel under paragraph (1).
      (B) Statement of reasons for removal
         In removing the General Counsel, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall state in writing to the General Counsel the specific reasons for the removal.
  (d) Other staff
     The Executive Director shall appoint, and fix the compensation of, and may remove, such other additional staff, including hearing officers, but not including attorneys employed in the office of the General Counsel, as may be necessary to enable the Office to perform its duties.
  (e) Detailed personnel
     The Executive Director may, with the prior consent of the department or agency of the Federal Government concerned, use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis the services of personnel of any such department or agency, including the services of members or personnel of the General Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board.\1\N
  (f) Consultants
     In carrying out the functions of the Office, the Executive Director may procure the temporary (not to exceed 1 year) or intermittent services of consultants.
