  (a) Study of film preservation
    (1) The Librarian shall, after consultation with the Board established pursuant to section 179b of this title, conduct a study on the current state of film preservation and restoration activities, including the activities of the Library of Congress and the other major film archives in the United States. The Librarian shall, in conducting the study–
      (A) take into account the objectives of the national film preservation program set forth in clauses (i) through (iii) of subsection (b)(1)(A) of this section; and
      (B) consult with film archivists, educators and historians, copyright owners, film industry representatives, including those involved in the preservation of film, and others involved in activities related to film preservation.
         The study shall include an examination of the concerns of private organizations and individuals involved in the collection and use of abandoned films such as training, educational, and other historically important films.
    (2) Not later than 1 year after June 26, 1992, the Librarian shall submit to the Congress a report containing the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).
  (b) Powers
    (1) The Librarian shall, after consultation with the Board, do the following:
      (A) After completion of the study required by subsection (a) of this section, the Librarian shall, taking into account the results of the study, establish a comprehensive national film preservation program for motion pictures, in conjunction with other film archivists and copyright owners. The objectives of such a program shall include–
        (i) coordinating activities to assure that efforts of archivists and copyright owners, and others in the public and private sector, are effective and complementary;
        (ii) generating public awareness of and support for those activities; and
        (iii) increasing accessibility of films for educational purposes, and improving nationwide activities in the preservation of works in other media such as videotape.
      (B) The Librarian shall establish guidelines and procedures under which films may be included in the National Film Registry, except that no film shall be eligible for inclusion in the National Film Registry until 10 years after such film“s first publication.
      (C) The Librarian shall establish procedures under which the general public may make recommendations to the Board regarding the inclusion of films in the National Film Registry.
      (D) The Librarian shall establish procedures for the examination by the Librarian of prints of films named for inclusion in the National Film Registry to determine their eligibility for the use of the seal of the National Film Registry under paragraph (3).
      (E) The Librarian shall determine which films satisfy the criteria established under subparagraph (B) and qualify for inclusion in the National Film Registry, except that the Librarian shall not select more than 25 films each year for inclusion in the Registry.
    (2) The Librarian shall publish in the Federal Register the name of each film that is selected for inclusion in the National Film Registry.
    (3) The Librarian shall provide a seal to indicate that a film has been included in the National Film Registry and is the Registry version of that film.
    (4) The Librarian shall publish in the Federal Register the criteria used to determine the Registry version of a film.
    (5) The Librarian shall submit to the Congress a report, not less than once every two years, listing films included in the National Film Registry and describing the activities of the Board.
  (c) Seal
     The seal provided under subsection (b)(3) of this section may be used on any copy of the Registry version of a film. Such seal may be used only after the Librarian has examined and approved the print from which the copy was made. In the case of copyrighted works, only the copyright owner or an authorized licensee of the copyright may place or authorize the placement of the seal on a copy of a film selected for inclusion in the National Film Registry, and the Librarian may place the seal on any print or copy of the film that is maintained in the National Film Registry Collection of the Library of Congress. The person authorized to place the seal on a copy of a film selected for inclusion in the National Film Registry may accompany such seal with the following language: ””This film is included in the National Film Registry, which is maintained by the Library of Congress, and was preserved under the National Film Preservation Act of 1992.““.
  (d) Development of standards
     The Librarian shall develop standards or guidelines by which to assess the preservation or restoration of films that will qualify films for use of the seal under this section.
