  (a) Number and appointment
    (1) The Librarian shall establish in the Library of Congress a National Film Preservation Board to be comprised of up to 18 members, who shall be selected by the Librarian in accordance with the provisions of this section. Subject to subparagraphs (C) and (O), the Librarian shall request each organization listed in subparagraphs (A) through (P) to submit to the Librarian a list of not less than 3 candidates qualified to serve as a member of the Board. Except for the members-at-large appointed under paragraph (2), the Librarian shall appoint 1 member from each such list submitted by such organizations, and shall designate from that list an alternate who may attend those meetings to which the individual appointed to the Board cannot attend. The organizations are the following:
      (A) The Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences.
      (B) The Directors Guild of America.
      (C) The Writers Guild of America. The Writers Guild of America East and the Writers Guild of America West shall each nominate not less than 3 candidates, and a representative from 1 such organization shall be selected as the member and a representative from the other such organization as the alternate.
      (D) The National Society of Film Critics.
      (E) The Society for Cinema Studies.
      (F) The American Film Institute.
      (G) The Department of Theatre, Film and Television of the College of Fine Arts at the University of California, Los Angeles.
      (H) The Department of Film and Television of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University.
      (I) The University Film and Video Association.
      (J) The Motion Picture Association of America.
      (K) The National Association of Broadcasters.
      (L) The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.
      (M) The Screen Actors Guild of America.
      (N) The National Association of Theater Owners.
      (O) The American Society of Cinematographers and the International Photographers Guild, which shall jointly submit 1 list of candidates from which a member and alternate will be selected.
      (P) The United States members of the International Federation of Film Archives.
    (2) In addition to the Members \1\N appointed under paragraph (1), the Librarian shall appoint up to 2 members-at-large. The Librarian shall select the at-large members from names submitted by organizations in the film industry, creative artists, producers, film critics, film preservation organizations, academic institutions with film study programs, and others with knowledge of copyright law and of the importance, use, and dissemination of films. The Librarian shall, in selecting 1 such member-at-large, give preference to individuals who are responsible for commercial film libraries. The Librarian shall also select from the names submitted under this paragraph an alternate for each member-at-large, who may attend those meetings to which the member-at-large cannot attend.
  (b) Chairperson
     The Librarian shall appoint 1 member of the Board to serve as Chairperson.
  (c) Term of office
    (1) The term of each member of the Board shall be 3 years, except that there shall be no limit to the number of terms that any individual member may serve.
    (2) A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made under subsection (a) of this section, except that the Librarian may fill the vacancy from a list of candidates previously submitted by the organization or organizations involved. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy before the expiration of the term for which his or her predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.
  (d) Quorum
     9 members of the Board shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
  (e) Basic pay
     Members of the Board shall serve without pay. While away from their home or regular places of business in the performance of functions of the Board, members of the Board shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in Government service are allowed expenses under section 5701 of title 5.
  (f) Meetings
     The Board shall meet at least once each calendar year. Meetings shall be at the call of the Librarian.
  (g) Conflict of interest
     The Librarian shall establish rules and procedures to address any potential conflict of interest between a member of the Board and the responsibilities of the Board.
