  (a) Short title
     This section may be cited as the ””Architect of the Capitol Inspector General Act of 2007““.
  (b) Office of Inspector General
     There is an Office of Inspector General within the Office of the Architect of the Capitol which is an independent objective office to–
    (1) conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to the Architect of the Capitol;
    (2) provide leadership and coordination and recommend policies to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness; and
    (3) provide a means of keeping the Architect of the Capitol and the Congress fully and currently informed about problems and deficiencies relating to the administration of programs and operations of the Architect of the Capitol.
  (c) Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal
    (1) Appointment and supervision
      (A) In general
         There shall be at the head of the Office of Inspector General, an Inspector General who shall be appointed by the Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the Inspectors General of the Library of Congress, Government Printing Office, Government Accountability Office, and United States Capitol Police. The appointment shall be made without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations. The Inspector General shall report to, and be under the general supervision of, the Architect of the Capitol.
      (B) Audits, investigations, reports, and other duties and responsibilities
         The Architect of the Capitol shall have no authority to prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from–
        (i) initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation;
        (ii) issuing any subpoena during the course of any audit or investigation;
        (iii) issuing any report; or
        (iv) carrying out any other duty or responsibility of the Inspector General under this section.
    (2) Removal
       The Inspector General may be removed from office by the Architect of the Capitol. The Architect of the Capitol shall, promptly upon such removal, communicate in writing the reasons for any such removal to each House of Congress.
    (3) Compensation
       The Inspector General shall be paid at an annual rate of pay equal to $1,500 less than the annual rate of pay of the Architect of the Capitol.
  (d) Duties, responsibilities, authority, and reports
    (1) In general
       Sections 4, 5 (other than subsections (a)(13) and (e)(1)(B) thereof), 6 (other than subsection (a)(7) and (8) thereof), and 7 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Inspector General of the Architect of the Capitol and the Office of such Inspector General and such sections shall be applied to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol and the Architect of the Capitol by substituting–
      (A) ””Office of the Architect of the Capitol““ for ””establishment““; and
      (B) ””Architect of the Capitol““ for ””head of the establishment““.
    (2) Employees
       The Inspector General, in carrying out this section, is authorized to select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees (including consultants) as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector General subject to the provisions of law governing selections, appointments, and employment in the Office of the Architect of the Capitol.
  (e) Transfers
     All functions, personnel, and budget resources of the Office of the Inspector General of the Architect of the Capitol as in effect before the effective date of this section are transferred to the Office of Inspector General described under subsection (b).
  (f) References
     References in any other Federal law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of or relating to the Inspector General of the Architect of the Capitol shall be deemed to refer to the Inspector General as set forth under this section.
  (g) First appointment
     By the date occurring 180 days after December 26, 2007, the Architect of the Capitol shall appoint an individual to the position of Inspector General of the Architect of the Capitol described under subparagraph (A) of subsection (c)(1) in accordance with that subparagraph.
  (h) Effective date
    (1) In general
       Except as provided under paragraph (2), this section shall take effect 180 days after December 26, 2007, and apply with respect to fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    (2) First appointment
       Subsection (g) shall take effect on December 26, 2007, and the Architect of the Capitol shall take such actions as necessary after December 26, 2007, to carry out that subsection.
