  (a) Establishment
     There is hereby established in the Treasury a revolving fund for the following programs and activities of the Librarian:
    (1) Decimal classification development.
    (2) The operation of a gift shop or other sales of items associated with collections, exhibits, performances, and special events of the Library of Congress.
    (3) Document reproduction and microfilming services.
  (b) Individual accounting requirement
     A separate account shall be maintained in the revolving fund under this section with respect to the programs and activities described in each of the paragraphs of subsection (a) of this section.
  (c) Fees for services
     The Librarian may charge a fee for services under any of the programs and activities described in subsection (a) of this section, and shall deposit any such fees charged into the account of the revolving fund under this section for such program or activity.
  (d) Contents of accounts in fund
    (1) In general
       Each account of the revolving fund under this section shall consist of the following amounts:
      (A) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under subsection (c) of this section.
      (B) Any other amounts received by the Librarian which are attributable to the programs and activities covered by such account.
      (C) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under paragraph (2).
      (D) Such other amounts as may be appropriated under law.
    (2) Deposit of funds during transition
       The Librarian shall transfer to each account of the revolving fund under this section the following:
      (A) Any obligated, unexpended balances existing as of the date of the transfer which are attributable to the programs and activities covered by such account.
      (B) An amount equal to the difference as of such date between–
        (i) the total value of the supplies, inventories, equipment, gift fund balances, and other assets attributable to such programs and activities; and
        (ii) the total value of the liabilities attributable to such programs and activities.
  (e) Use of amounts
     Amounts in the accounts of the revolving fund under this section shall be available to the Librarian, in amounts specified in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year limitation, to carry out the programs and activities covered by such accounts.
