  (a) Short title
     This section may be cited as the ””Library of Congress Inspector General Act of 2005““.
  (b) Office of Inspector General
     There is an Office of Inspector General within the Library of Congress which is an independent objective office to–
    (1) conduct and supervise audits and investigations (excluding incidents involving violence and personal property) relating to the Library of Congress;
    (2) provide leadership and coordination and recommend policies to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness; and
    (3) provide a means of keeping the Librarian of Congress and the Congress fully and currently informed about problems and deficiencies relating to the administration and operations of the Library of Congress.
  (c) Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal
    (1) Appointment and supervision
      (A) In general
         There shall be at the head of the Office of Inspector General, an Inspector General who shall be appointed by the Librarian of Congress without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations. The Inspector General shall report to, and be under the general supervision of, the Librarian of Congress.
      (B) Audits, investigations, and reports
         The Librarian of Congress shall have no authority to prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from–
        (i) initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation;
        (ii) issuing any subpoena during the course of any audit or investigation; or
        (iii) issuing any report.
    (2) Removal
       The Inspector General may be removed from office by the Librarian of Congress. The Librarian of Congress shall, promptly upon such removal, communicate in writing the reasons for any such removal to each House of the Congress.
  (d) Duties, responsibilities, authority, and reports
    (1) In general
       Sections 4, 5 (other than subsections \1\N (a)(13)), 6(a) (other than paragraphs (7) and (8) thereof), and 7 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Inspector General of the Library of Congress and the Office of such Inspector General and such sections shall be applied to the Library of Congress and the Librarian of Congress by substituting–
      (A) ””Library of Congress““ for ””establishment““; and
      (B) ””Librarian of Congress““ for ””head of the establishment““.
    (2) Employees
       The Inspector General, in carrying out the provisions of this section, is authorized to select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees (including consultants) as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector General subject to the provisions of law governing selections, appointments, and employment in the Library of Congress.
  (e) Transfers
     All functions, personnel, and budget resources of the Office of Investigations of the Library of Congress are transferred to the Office of Inspector General.
  (f) Incumbent
     The individual who serves in the position of Inspector General of the Library of Congress on August 2, 2005, shall continue to serve in that position, subject to removal in accordance with this section.
  (g) References
     References in any other Federal law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of or relating to the Inspector General of the Library of Congress shall be deemed to refer to the Inspector General of the Library of Congress as set forth under this section.
  (h) Effective date
     This section shall be effective on August 2, 2005.
