  (a) Recruitment and relocation bonuses
    (1) Authorization of payment
       The Capitol Police Board (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Board““) may authorize the Chief of the United States Capitol Police (hereafter in this section referred to as the ””Chief““) to pay a bonus to an individual who is newly appointed to a position as an officer or employee of the Capitol Police, and to pay an additional bonus to an individual who must relocate to accept a position as an officer or employee of the Capitol Police, if the Chief, in the Chief“s sole discretion, determines that such a bonus will assist the Capitol Police in recruitment efforts.
    (2) Amount of payment
       The amount of a bonus under this subsection shall be determined by regulations of the Board, but the amount of any bonus paid to an individual under this subsection may not exceed 25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the position to which the individual is being appointed.
    (3) Minimum period of service required
       Payment of a bonus under this subsection shall be contingent upon the individual entering into an agreement with the Capitol Police to complete a period of employment with the Capitol Police, with the required period determined pursuant to regulations of the Board. If the individual voluntarily fails to complete such period of service or is separated from the service before completion of such period of service for cause on charges of misconduct or delinquency, the individual shall repay the bonus on a pro rata basis.
    (4) Bonus not considered part of basic pay
       A bonus under this subsection shall be paid as a lump sum, and may not be considered to be part of the basic pay of the officer or employee.
    (5) Payment permitted prior to commencement of duty
       Under regulations of the Board, a bonus under this subsection may be paid to a newly-hired officer or employee before the officer or employee enters on duty.
    (6) Determination not appealable or reviewable
       Any determination of the Chief under this subsection shall not be appealable or reviewable in any manner.
  (b) Retention allowances
    (1) Authorization of payment
       The Board may authorize the Chief to pay an allowance to an officer or employee of the United States Capitol Police if the Chief, in the Chief“s sole discretion, determines that such a bonus will assist the Capitol Police in retention efforts.
    (2) Amount of payment
       A retention allowance, which shall be stated as a percentage of the rate of basic pay of the officer or employee, may not exceed 25 percent of such rate of basic pay.
    (3) Payment not considered part of basic pay
       A retention allowance may not be considered to be part of the basic pay of an officer or employee, and any determination of the Chief under this subsection, or the reduction or elimination of a retention allowance, shall not be appealable or reviewable in any manner. The preceding sentence shall not be construed to extinguish or lessen any right or remedy under any of the laws made applicable to the Capitol Police pursuant to section 1302 of this title.
    (4) Time and manner of payment
       A retention allowance under this subsection shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as the officer“s or employee“s basic pay is paid.
  (c) Lump sum incentive and merit bonus payments
    (1) In general
       The Board may pay an incentive or merit bonus to an officer or employee of the United States Capitol Police who meets such criteria for receiving the bonus as the Board may establish.
    (2) Bonus not considered part of basic pay
       A bonus under this subsection shall be paid as a lump sum, and may not be considered to be part of the basic pay of the officer or employee.
  (d) Service step increases for meritorious service for officers
     Upon the approval of the Chief–
    (1) an officer of the United States Capitol Police in a service step who has demonstrated meritorious service (in accordance with criteria established by the Chief or the Chief“s designee) may be advanced in compensation to the next higher service step, effective with the first pay period which begins after the date of the Chief“s approval; and
    (2) an officer of the United States Capitol Police in a service step who has demonstrated extraordinary performance (in accordance with criteria established by the Chief or the Chief“s designee) may be advanced in compensation to the second next higher service step, effective with the first pay period which begins after the date of the Chief“s approval.
  (e) Regulations
    (1) In general
       The payment of bonuses, allowances, step increases, compensation, and other payments pursuant to this section shall be carried out in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Board.
    (2) Repealed. Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1004(2), Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 358
  (f) Effective date
     This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each succeeding fiscal year.
