  (a) Design and installation
    (1) Effective October 1, 1995, the unexpended balances of appropriations specified in paragraph (2) are transferred to the appropriation for general expenses of the Capitol Police, to be used for design and installation of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds.
    (2) The unexpended balances referred to in paragraph (1) are–
      (A) the unexpended balance of appropriations for security installations, as referred to in the paragraph under the heading ””T4capitol buildingsK““, under the general headings ””JOINT ITEMS““, ””ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL““, and ””T4Capitol Buildings and GroundsK““ in title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995 (108 Stat. 1434), including any unexpended balance from a prior fiscal year and any unexpended balance under such headings in this Act; and
      (B) the unexpended balance of the appropriation for an improved security plan, as transferred to the Architect of the Capitol by section 102 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (102 Stat. 2165).
  (b) Transfer of responsibility to Capitol Police Board
     Effective October 1, 1995, the responsibility for design and installation of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds is transferred from the Architect of the Capitol to the Capitol Police Board. Such design and installation shall be carried out under the direction of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, and without regard to section 5 of title 41. On and after October 1, 1995, any alteration to a structural, mechanical, or architectural feature of the Capitol buildings and grounds that is required for a security system under the preceding sentence may be carried out only with the approval of the Architect of the Capitol.
  (c) Transfer of positions to Capitol Police
    (1) Effective October 1, 1995, all positions specified in paragraph (2) and each individual holding any such position (on a permanent basis) immediately before that date, as identified by the Architect of the Capitol, shall be transferred to the Capitol Police.
    (2) The positions referred to in paragraph (1) are those positions which, immediately before October 1, 1995, are–
      (A) under the Architect of the Capitol;
      (B) within the Electronics Engineering Division of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol; and
      (C) related to the design or installation of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds.
    (3) All annual leave and sick leave standing to the credit of an individual immediately before such individual is transferred under paragraph (1) shall be credited to such individual, without adjustment, in the new position of the individual.
