  (a) Designation
     The heating, lighting, and power plant constructed under the terms of the Act approved April 28, 1904 (33 Stat. 479, chapter 1762) shall be known as the ””Capitol Power Plant““.
  (b) Definition
     In this section, the term ””carbon dioxide energy efficiency““ means the quantity of electricity used to power equipment for carbon dioxide capture and storage or use.
  (c) Feasibility study
     The Architect of the Capitol shall conduct a feasibility study evaluating the available methods to capture, store, and use carbon dioxide emitted from the Capitol Power Plant as a result of burning fossil fuels. In carrying out the feasibility study, the Architect of the Capitol is encouraged to consult with individuals with expertise in carbon capture and storage or use, including experts with the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Energy, academic institutions, non-profit organizations, and industry, as appropriate. The study shall consider–
    (1) the availability of technologies to capture and store or use Capitol Power Plant carbon dioxide emissions;
    (2) strategies to conserve energy and reduce carbon dioxide emissions at the Capitol Power Plant; and
    (3) other factors as determined by the Architect of the Capitol.
  (d) Demonstration projects
    (1) In general
       If the feasibility study determines that a demonstration project to capture and store or use Capitol Power Plant carbon dioxide emissions is technologically feasible and economically justified (including direct and indirect economic and environmental benefits), the Architect of the Capitol may conduct 1 or more demonstration projects to capture and store or use carbon dioxide emitted from the Capitol Power Plant as a result of burning fossil fuels.
    (2) Factors for consideration
       In carrying out such demonstration projects, the Architect of the Capitol shall consider–
      (A) the amount of Capitol Power Plant carbon dioxide emissions to be captured and stored or used;
      (B) whether the proposed project is able to reduce air pollutants other than carbon dioxide;
      (C) the carbon dioxide energy efficiency of the proposed project;
      (D) whether the proposed project is able to use carbon dioxide emissions;
      (E) whether the proposed project could be expanded to significantly increase the amount of Capitol Power Plant carbon dioxide emissions to be captured and stored or used;
      (F) the potential environmental, energy, and educational benefits of demonstrating the capture and storage or use of carbon dioxide at the U.S. Capitol; and
      (G) other factors as determined by the Architect of the Capitol.
    (3) Terms and conditions
       A demonstration project funded under this section shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.
  (e) Authorization of appropriations
     There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the feasibility study and demonstration project $3,000,000. Such sums shall remain available until expended.
