  (a) Procedure; rules
    (1) A resolution introduced pursuant to section 288b of this title shall not be referred to a committee, except as otherwise required under section 288d(c) of this title. Upon introduction, or upon being reported if required under section 288d(c) of this title, whichever is later, it shall at any time thereafter be in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of such resolution. A motion to proceed to the consideration of a resolution shall be highly privileged and not debatable. An amendment to such motion shall not be in order, and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which such motion is agreed to.
    (2) With respect to a resolution pursuant to section 288b(a) of this title, the following rules apply:
      (A) If the motion to proceed to the consideration of the resolution is agreed to, debate thereon shall be limited to not more than ten hours, which shall be divided equally between, and controlled by, those favoring and those opposing the resolution. A motion further to limit debate shall not be debatable. No amendment to the resolution shall be in order. No motion to recommit the resolution shall be in order, and it shall not be in order to reconsider the vote by which the resolution is agreed to.
      (B) Motions to postpone, made with respect to the consideration of the resolution, and motions to proceed to the consideration of other business, shall be decided without debate.
      (C) All appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate to the procedure relating to the resolution shall be decided without debate.
  (b) ””Committee““ defined
     For purposes of this chapter, other than section 288b of this title, the term ””committee““ includes standing, select, and special committees of the Senate established by law or resolution.
  (c) Rules of the Senate
     The provisions of this section are enacted–
    (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, and, as such, they shall be considered as part of the rules of the Senate, and such rules shall supersede any other rule of the Senate only to the extent that rule is inconsistent therewith; and
    (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of the Senate to change such rules at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of the Senate.
