  (1) The Commission shall be composed of 11 members, who shall be appointed from private life as follows:
    (A) 2 appointed by the President of the United States;
    (B) 1 appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate, upon the recommendation of the majority and minority leaders of the Senate;
    (C) 1 appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
    (D) 2 appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States; and
    (E) 5 appointed by the Administrator of General Services in accordance with paragraph (4).
  (2) No person shall serve as a member of the Commission who is–
    (A) an officer or employee of the Federal Government;
    (B) registered (or required to register) under the Federal Regulation of Lobbying Act; \1\N or
    (C) a parent, sibling, spouse, child, or dependent relative, of anyone under subparagraph (A) or (B).
  (3) The persons appointed under subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1) shall be selected without regard to political affiliation, and should be selected from among persons who have experience or expertise in such areas as government, personnel management, or public administration.
  (4) The Administrator of General Services shall by regulation establish procedures under which persons shall be selected for appointment under paragraph (1)(E). Such procedures–
    (A) shall be designed in such a way so as to provide for the maximum degree of geographic diversity practicable among members under paragraph (1)(E);
    (B) shall include provisions under which those members shall be chosen by lot from among names randomly selected from voter registration lists; and
    (C) shall otherwise comply with applicable provisions of this section.
  (5) The chairperson shall be designated by the President.
  (6) A vacancy in the membership of the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (7) Each member of the Commission shall be paid at the rate of $100 for each day such member is engaged upon the work of the Commission and shall be allowed travel expenses, including a per diem allowance, in accordance with section 5703 of title 5, when engaged in the performance of services for the Commission.
  (8)    (A) The terms of office of persons first appointed as members of the Commission shall be for the period of the 1993 fiscal year of the Federal Government, and shall begin not later than February 14, 1993.
    (B) After the close of the 1993 fiscal year of the Federal Government, persons shall be appointed as members of the Commission with respect to every fourth fiscal year following the 1993 fiscal year. The terms of office of persons so appointed shall be for the period of the fiscal year with respect to which the appointment is made, except that, if any appointment is made after the beginning and before the close of any such fiscal year, the term of office based on such appointment shall be for the remainder of such fiscal year.
    (C)      (i) Notwithstanding any provision of subparagraph (A) or (B), members of the Commission may continue to serve after the close of a fiscal year, if the date designated by the President under section 357 of this title (relating to the date by which the Commission is to submit its report to the President) is subsequent to the close of such fiscal year, and only if or to the extent necessary to allow the Commission to submit such report.
      (ii) Notwithstanding any provision of section 353 of this title, authority under such section shall remain available, after the close of a fiscal year, so long as members of the Commission continue to serve.
