  (a) President“s budget
     Beginning with fiscal year 1992, the President“s budget shall reflect the costs of direct loan and loan guarantee programs. The budget shall also include the planned level of new direct loan obligations or loan guarantee commitments associated with each appropriations request.
  (b) Appropriations required
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, new direct loan obligations may be incurred and new loan guarantee commitments may be made for fiscal year 1992 and thereafter only to the extent that–
    (1) new budget authority to cover their costs is provided in advance in an appropriations Act;
    (2) a limitation on the use of funds otherwise available for the cost of a direct loan or loan guarantee program has been provided in advance in an appropriations Act; or
    (3) authority is otherwise provided in appropriation Acts.
  (c) Exemption for mandatory programs
     Subsections (b) and (e) of this section shall not apply to a direct loan or loan guarantee program that–
    (1) constitutes an entitlement (such as the guaranteed student loan program or the veterans“ home loan guaranty program); or
    (2) all existing credit programs of the Commodity Credit Corporation on November 5, 1990.
  (d) Budget accounting
    (1) The authority to incur new direct loan obligations, make new loan guarantee commitments, or modify outstanding direct loans (or direct loan obligations) or loan guarantees (or loan guarantee commitments) shall constitute new budget authority in an amount equal to the cost of the direct loan or loan guarantee in the fiscal year in which definite authority becomes available or indefinite authority is used. Such budget authority shall constitute an obligation of the credit program account to pay to the financing account.
    (2) The outlays resulting from new budget authority for the cost of direct loans or loan guarantees described in paragraph (1) shall be paid from the credit program account into the financing account and recorded in the fiscal year in which the direct loan or the guaranteed loan is disbursed or its costs altered.
    (3) All collections and payments of the financing accounts shall be a means of financing.
  (e) Modifications
     An outstanding direct loan (or direct loan obligation) or loan guarantee (or loan guarantee commitment) shall not be modified in a manner that increases its costs unless budget authority for the additional cost has been provided in advance in an appropriations Act.
  (f) Reestimates
     When the estimated cost for a group of direct loans or loan guarantees for a given credit program made in a single fiscal year is reestimated in a subsequent year, the difference between the reestimated cost and the previous cost estimate shall be displayed as a distinct and separately identified subaccount in the credit program account as a change in program costs and a change in net interest. There is hereby provided permanent indefinite authority for these reestimates.
  (g) Administrative expenses
     All funding for an agency“s administration of a direct loan or loan guarantee program shall be displayed as distinct and separately identified subaccounts within the same budget account as the program“s cost.
