  (a) In general
    (1) Discretionary budget authority
       OMB shall, for each dollar amount of discretionary budget authority and for each item of new direct spending canceled from an appropriation law under section 691(a) of this title–
      (A) reflect the reduction that results from such cancellation in the estimates required by section 251(a)(7) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 901(a)(7)] in accordance with that Act [2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.], including an estimate of the reduction of the budget authority and the reduction in outlays flowing from such reduction of budget authority for each outyear; and
      (B) include a reduction to the discretionary spending limits for budget authority and outlays in accordance with the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.] for each applicable fiscal year set forth in section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 901(c)] by amounts equal to the amounts for each fiscal year estimated pursuant to subparagraph (A).
    (2) Direct spending and limited tax benefits
      (A) OMB shall, for each item of new direct spending or limited tax benefit canceled from a law under section 691(a) of this title, estimate the deficit decrease caused by the cancellation of such item or benefit in that law and include such estimate as a separate entry in the report prepared pursuant to section 252(d) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 902(d)].
      (B) OMB shall not include any change in the deficit resulting from a cancellation of any item of new direct spending or limited tax benefit, or the enactment of a disapproval bill for any such cancellation, under this subchapter in the estimates and reports required by sections 252(b) and 254 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 902(b), 904].
  (b) Adjustments to spending limits
     After ten calendar days (excluding Sundays) after the expiration of the time period in section 691d(b)(1) of this title for expedited congressional consideration of a disapproval bill for a special message containing a cancellation of discretionary budget authority, OMB shall make the reduction included in subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section as part of the next sequester report required by section 254 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [2 U.S.C. 904].
  (c) Exception
     Subsection (b) of this section shall not apply to a cancellation if a disapproval bill or other law that disapproves that cancellation is enacted into law prior to 10 calendar days (excluding Sundays) after the expiration of the time period set forth in section 691d(b)(1) of this title.
  (d) Congressional Budget Office estimates
     As soon as practicable after the President makes a cancellation from a law under section 691(a) of this title, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall provide the Committees on the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate with an estimate of the reduction of the budget authority and the reduction in outlays flowing from such reduction of budget authority for each outyear.
