  (a) Establishment, functions, and purposes; nature of awards
     The Board shall establish and administer a program to be known as the Congressional Award Program, which shall be designed to promote initiative, achievement, and excellence among youths in the areas of public service, personal development, and physical and expedition fitness. Under the program medals shall be awarded to young people within the United States, aged fourteen through twenty-three (subject to such exceptions as the Board may prescribe), who have satisfied the standards of achievement established by the Board under subsection (b) of this section. Each medal shall consist of gold-plate over bronze, rhodium over bronze, or bronze and shall be struck in accordance with subsection (f) of this section.
  (b) Implementation requirements for Board
     In carrying out the Congressional Award Program, the Board shall–
    (1) establish the standards of achievement required for young people to qualify as recipients of the medals and establish such procedures as may be required to verify that individuals satisfy such qualifications;
    (2) designate the recipients of the medals in accordance with the standards established under paragraph (1) of this subsection;
    (3) delineate such roles as the Board considers to be appropriate for the Director and Regional Directors in administering the Congressional Award, and set forth in the bylaws of the Board the duties, salaries, and benefits of the Director and Regional Directors;
    (4) raise funds for the operation of the program; and
    (5) take such other actions as may be appropriate for the administration of the Congressional Award Program.
       No salary established by the Board under paragraph (3) shall exceed $75,000 per annum, except that for calendar years after 1986, such limit shall be increased in proportion to increases in the Consumer Price Index.
  (c) Presentation of awards
     The Board shall arrange for the presentation of the awards to the recipients and shall provide for participation by Members of Congress in such presentation, when appropriate. To the extent possible, recipients shall be provided with opportunities to exchange information and views with Members of Congress during the presentation of the awards.
  (d) Scholarships for recipients of Congressional Award Gold, Silver, and Bronze Medals
     The Board may award scholarships in such amounts as the Board determines to be appropriate to any recipient of the Congressional Award Gold, Silver, and Bronze Medals.
  (e) Annual reporting requirements
     The Board shall prepare and submit an annual report to the Congress before June 1 of each year summarizing the activities of the Congressional Award Program during the previous year and making appropriate recommendations. Any minority views and recommendations of members of the Board shall be included in such reports. The annual report shall contain the following items:
    (1) Specific information regarding the methods used to raise funds for the Congressional Award Program and a list of the sources of all money raised by the Board.
    (2) Detailed information regarding the expenditures made by the Board, including the percentage of funds which are used for administrative expenses.
    (3) A description of the programs formulated by the Director under section 804(b)(1) of this title, including an explanation of the operation of such programs and a list of their sponsors.
    (4) A detailed list of the administrative expenditures made by the Board, including the amounts expended for salaries, travel expenses, and reimbursed expenses for each member, officer, employee, and consultant of the Board (or of the Corporation established pursuant to section 806(g)(1) \1\N of this title).
    (5) A list of individuals given awards under the program, and their place of residence.
    (6) A detailed description of the goals and objectives of the Board and the role of Congressional participation in fulfilling those goals and objectives.
    (7) Plans for activities to be conducted during the remainder of the duration of the program, consistent with the functions and requirements established under this chapter.
    (8) Such other information as the Board may consider significant.
  (f) Congressional Award Program medals
    (1) Design and striking
       The Secretary of the Treasury shall strike the medals described in subsection (a) of this section and awarded by the Board under this chapter. Subject to subsection (a) of this section, the medals shall be of such quantity, design, and specifications as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine, after consultation with the Board.
    (2) National medals
       The medals struck pursuant to this chapter are National medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31.
    (3) Authorization of appropriations
       There are authorized to be charged against the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the cost of the medals struck pursuant to this chapter.
