  (a) Membership; composition; appointment criteria; derivation of appointment
    (1) The Board shall consist of 25 members, as follows:
      (A) Six members appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, 1 of whom shall be a recipient of the Congressional Award.
      (B) Six members appointed by the minority leader of the Senate, 1 of whom shall be a a \1\N local Congressional Award program volunteer.
      (C) Six members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 1 of whom shall be a a \1\ local Congressional Award program volunteer.
      (D) Six members appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, 1 of whom shall be a recipient of the Congressional Award.
      (E) The Director of the Board, who shall serve as a nonvoting member.
    (2) In making appointments to the Board, the congressional leadership shall consider recommendations submitted by any interested party, including any member of the Board. One of the members appointed under each of subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1) shall be a member of the Congress.
    (3) Individuals appointed to the Board shall have an interest in one or more of the fields of concern of the Congressional Award Program.
    (4) For the purpose of determining the derivation of the appointment of any person appointed to the Board under this section, if there is a change in the status of majority and minority between the parties of the House or the Senate, each person appointed under this section shall be deemed to have been appointed by the leadership position set out in subsection (a)(1) of this section of the party of the individual who made the initial appointment of such person.
  (b) Terms of appointed members; reappointment
    (1) Appointed members of the Board shall continue to serve at the pleasure of the officer by whom they are appointed, and (unless reappointed under paragraph (3)) shall serve for a term of 4 years.
    (2) For the purpose of adjusting the terms of Board members to allow for staggered appointments, the following distribution of Board terms shall take effect at the first meeting of the Board occurring after November 6, 1990:
      (A) Those members who have served 10 years or more, as of the date of such meeting, shall have an appointment expiring on a date 2 years from October 1, 1990.
      (B) Those members who have served for 6 months or less, as of the date of such meeting, shall have an appointment expiring on a date 6 years from October 11, 1990.
      (C) All other members shall apportion the remaining Board positions between equal numbers of 2 and 4 year terms (providing that if there are an unequal number of remaining members, there shall be a predominance of 4 year terms), such apportionment to be made by lot.
    (3)      (A) Subject to the limitations in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this paragraph, members of the Board may be reappointed, provided that no member may serve more than 2 consecutive terms.
      (B) Members of the Board covered under paragraph (2)(A) of this section \2\N shall not be eligible for reappointment to the Board. Members of the Board covered under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (2) of this section \2\ may be reappointed for 1 additional consecutive 4 year term.
      (C) Members of the Board who serve as chairman of the Board shall not have the time during which they serve as chairman used in the computation of their period of service for purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (2).
  (c) Vacancies in membership
    (1) Any vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (2) Any appointed member of the Board may continue to serve after the expiration of his term until his successor has taken office.
    (3) Vacancies in the membership of the Board shall not affect its power to function if there remain sufficient members to constitute a quorum under subsection (d) of this section.
  (d) Notice; quorum
    (1) A meeting of the Board may be convened only if–
      (A) notice of the meeting was provided to each member in accordance with the bylaws; and
      (B) not less than 11 members are present for the meeting at the time given in the notice.
    (2) A majority of the members present when a meeting is convened shall constitute a quorum for the remainder of the meeting.
  (e) Compensation for travel expenses of members
     Members of the Board shall serve without pay but may be compensated for reasonable travel expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.
  (f) Meetings
     The Board shall meet at least twice a year at the call of the Chairman (with at least one meeting in the District of Columbia) and at such other times as the Chairman may determine to be appropriate. The Chairman shall call a meeting of the Board whenever one-third of the members of the Board submit written requests for such a meeting.
  (g) Chairman and Vice Chairman
     The Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board shall be elected from among the members of the Board by a majority vote of the Board for such terms as the Board determines. The Vice Chairman shall perform the duties of the Chairman in his absence.
  (h) Appointment, functions, etc., of committees; membership
    (1) The Board may appoint such committees, and assign to the committees such functions, as may be appropriate to assist the Board in carrying out its duties under this chapter. Members of such committees may include the members of the Board or such other qualified individuals as the Board may select.
    (2) Any employee or officer of the Federal Government may serve as a member of a committee created by the Board, but may not receive compensation for services performed for such a committee.
      (i) Bylaws and regulations; contents; transmittal to Congress
         The Board shall establish such bylaws and other regulations as may be appropriate to enable the Board to carry out its functions under this chapter. Such bylaws and other regulations shall include provisions to prevent any conflict of interest, or the appearance of any conflict of interest, in the procurement and employment actions taken by the Board or by any officer or employee of the Board. Such bylaws shall include appropriate fiscal control, funds accountability, and operating principles to ensure compliance with the provisions of section 806 of this title. A copy of such bylaws shall be transmitted to each House of Congress not later than 90 days after November 25, 1985, and not later than 10 days after any subsequent amendment or revision of such bylaws.
      (j) Removal from Board
         Any member of the Board who fails to attend 4 consecutive Board meetings scheduled pursuant to the bylaws of the Board and for which proper notice has been given under such bylaws, or to send a designee of such member (approved in advance by the Board under provisions of its bylaws), is, by operation of this subsection, removed, for cause, from the Board as of the date of the last meeting from which they are absent. The Chairman of the Board shall take such steps as are necessary to inform members who have 3 absences of this subsection. The Chairman shall notify the House and the Senate, including the appropriate committees of each body, whenever there is a vacancy created by the operation of this subsection.
