  (a) Director; status; appointment and term; removal
     In the administration of the Congressional Award Program, the Board shall be assisted by a Director, who shall be the principal executive of the program and who shall supervise the affairs of the Board. The Director shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Board, and shall serve for such term as the Board may determine. The Director may be removed by a majority vote of the Board.
  (b) Functions of Director
     The Director shall, in consultation with the Board–
    (1) formulate programs to carry out the policies of the Congressional Award Program;
    (2) establish such divisions within the Congressional Award Program as may be appropriate; and
    (3) employ and provide for the compensation of such personnel as may be necessary to carry out the Congressional Award Program, subject to such policies as the Board shall prescribe under its bylaws.
  (c) Requirements regarding financial operations; noncompliance with requirements
    (1) The Director shall, in consultation with the Board, ensure that appropriate procedures for fiscal control and fund accounting are established for the financial operations of the Congressional Award Program, and that such operations are administered by personnel with expertise in accounting and financial management. Such personnel may be retained under contract. In carrying out this paragraph, the Director shall ensure that the liabilities of the Board do not, for any calendar year, exceed the assets of the Board.
    (2)      (A) The Comptroller General of the United States shall determine, for calendar years 1993 \1\N 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004, whether the Director has substantially complied with paragraph (1). The findings made by the Comptroller General under the preceding sentence shall be included in the first report submitted under section 807(b) \2\N of this title after December 31, 1994.
      (B) If the Director fails to substantially comply with paragraph (1), the Board shall take such actions as may be necessary to prepare, pursuant to section 808 \2\ of this title, for the orderly cessation of the activities of the Board.
