  (a) Composition
    (1) In general
       The Board shall consist of 9 members as follows:
      (A) 2 Members of the Senate appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate.
      (B) 2 Members of the Senate appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate.
      (C) 2 Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
      (D) 2 Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
      (E) The Director of the Board, who shall serve as a nonvoting member.
    (2) Advisory Board
       There is established an Advisory Board to assist and advise the Board with respect to its duties under this subchapter, that shall consist of 15 members appointed–
      (A) in the case of the initial such members of the Advisory Board, by the leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives making the appointments under paragraph (1), from recommendations received from organizations and entities involved in the arts such as businesses, civic and cultural organizations, and the Arts Education Partnership steering committee; and
      (B) in the case of any other such members of the Advisory Board, by the Board.
    (3) Special rule for Advisory Board
       In making appointments to the Advisory Board, the individuals and entity making the appointments under paragraph (2) shall consider recommendations submitted by any interested party, including any member of the Board.
    (4) Interest
      (A) In general
         Members of Congress appointed to the Board shall have an interest in 1 of the purposes described in section 814(a) of this title.
      (B) Diversity
         The membership of the Advisory Board shall represent a balance of artistic and education professionals, including at least 1 representative who teaches in each of the following disciplines:
        (i) Music.
        (ii) Theater.
        (iii) Visual Arts.
        (iv) Dance.
  (b) Terms
    (1) Board
       Members of the Board shall serve for terms of 6 years, except that of the members first appointed–
      (A) 1 Member of the House of Representatives and 1 Member of the Senate shall serve for terms of 2 years;
      (B) 1 Member of the House of Representatives and 1 Member of the Senate shall serve for terms of 4 years; and
      (C) 2 Members of the House of Representatives and 2 Members of the Senate shall serve for terms of 6 years,
       as determined by lot when all such members have been appointed.
    (2) Advisory Board
       Members of the Advisory Board shall serve for terms of 6 years, except that of the members first appointed, 3 shall serve for terms of 2 years, 4 shall serve for terms of 4 years, and 8 shall serve for terms of 6 years, as determined by lot when all such members have been appointed.
  (c) Vacancy
    (1) In general
       Any vacancy in the membership of the Board or Advisory Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (2) Term
       Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member“s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.
    (3) Extension
       Any appointed member of the Board or Advisory Board may continue to serve after the expiration of the member“s term until the member“s successor has taken office.
    (4) Special rule
       Vacancies in the membership of the Board shall not affect the Board“s power to function if there remain sufficient members of the Board to constitute a quorum under subsection (d) of this section.
  (d) Quorum
     A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
  (e) Compensation
     Members of the Board and Advisory Board shall serve without pay but may be compensated, from amounts in the trust fund, for reasonable travel expenses incurred by the members in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.
  (f) Meetings
     The Board shall meet annually at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Chairperson may determine to be appropriate. The Chairperson shall call a meeting of the Board whenever \1/3\ of the members of the Board submit written requests for such a meeting.
  (g) Officers
     The Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of the Board shall be elected from among the members of the Board, by a majority vote of the members of the Board, for such terms as the Board determines. The Vice Chairperson shall perform the duties of the Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson.
  (h) Committees
    (1) In general
       The Board may appoint such committees, and assign to the committees such functions, as may be appropriate to assist the Board in carrying out its duties under this subchapter. Members of such committees may include the members of the Board or the Advisory Board.
    (2) Special rule
       Any employee or officer of the Federal Government may serve as a member of a committee created by the Board, but may not receive compensation for services performed for such a committee.
      (i) Bylaws and other requirements
         The Board shall establish such bylaws and other requirements as may be appropriate to enable the Board to carry out the Board“s duties under this subchapter.
