  (a) Procedures in event of low-growth report
    (1) Trigger
       Whenever CBO issues a low-growth report under section 904(j) of this title, the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives may, and the Majority Leader of the Senate shall, introduce a joint resolution (in the form set forth in paragraph (2)) declaring that the conditions specified in section 904(j) of this title are met and suspending the relevant provisions of this title,\1\N titles III and VI of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 [2 U.S.C. 631 et seq., 665 et seq.], and section 1103 of title 31.
    (2) Form of joint resolution
      (A) The matter after the resolving clause in any joint resolution introduced pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be as follows: ””That the Congress declares that the conditions specified in section 254(j) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are met, and the implementation of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, chapter 11 of title 31, United States Code, and part C of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are modified as described in section 258(b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.““
      (B) The title of the joint resolution shall be ””Joint resolution suspending certain provisions of law pursuant to section 258(a)(2) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.““; and the joint resolution shall not contain any preamble.
    (3) Committee action
       Each joint resolution introduced pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be referred to the appropriate committees of the House of Representatives or the Committee on the Budget of the Senate, as the case may be; and such Committee shall report the joint resolution to its House without amendment on or before the fifth day on which such House is in session after the date on which the joint resolution is introduced. If the Committee fails to report the joint resolution within the five-day period referred to in the preceding sentence, it shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of the joint resolution, and the joint resolution shall be placed on the appropriate calendar.
    (4) Consideration of joint resolution
      (A) A vote on final passage of a joint resolution reported to the Senate or discharged pursuant to paragraph (3) shall be taken on or before the close of the fifth calendar day of session after the date on which the joint resolution is reported or after the Committee has been discharged from further consideration of the joint resolution. If prior to the passage by one House of a joint resolution of that House, that House receives the same joint resolution from the other House, then–
        (i) the procedure in that House shall be the same as if no such joint resolution had been received from the other House, but
        (ii) the vote on final passage shall be on the joint resolution of the other House.
       When the joint resolution is agreed to, the Clerk of the House of Representatives (in the case of a House joint resolution agreed to in the House of Representatives) or the Secretary of the Senate (in the case of a Senate joint resolution agreed to in the Senate) shall cause the joint resolution to be engrossed, certified, and transmitted to the other House of the Congress as soon as practicable.
      (B)        (i) In the Senate, a joint resolution under this paragraph shall be privileged. It shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to.
        (ii) Debate in the Senate on a joint resolution under this paragraph, and all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than five hours. The time shall be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees.
        (iii) Debate in the Senate on any debatable motion or appeal in connection with a joint resolution under this paragraph shall be limited to not more than one hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the joint resolution, except that in the event the manager of the joint resolution is in favor of any such motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto shall be controlled by the minority leader or his designee.
        (iv) A motion in the Senate to further limit debate on a joint resolution under this paragraph is not debatable. A motion to table or to recommit a joint resolution under this paragraph is not in order.
      (C) No amendment to a joint resolution considered under this paragraph shall be in order in the Senate.
  (b) Suspension of sequestration procedures
     Upon the enactment of a declaration of war or a joint resolution described in subsection (a) of this section–
    (1) the subsequent issuance of any sequestration report or any sequestration order is precluded;
    (2) sections 302(f), 310(d), 311(a), and title VI of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 [2 U.S.C. 633(f), 641(d), 642(a), 665 et seq.] are suspended; and
    (3) section 1103 of title 31 is suspended.
  (c) Restoration of sequestration procedures
    (1) In the event of a suspension of sequestration procedures due to a declaration of war, then, effective with the first fiscal year that begins in the session after the state of war is concluded by Senate ratification of the necessary treaties, the provisions of subsection (b) of this section triggered by that declaration of war are no longer effective.
    (2) In the event of a suspension of sequestration procedures due to the enactment of a joint resolution described in subsection (a) of this section, then, effective with regard to the first fiscal year beginning at least 12 months after the enactment of that resolution, the provisions of subsection (b) of this section triggered by that resolution are no longer effective.
