  (a) Introduction of joint resolution
     At any time after the Director of OMB issues a report under section 901(c)(2) \1\N of this title for a fiscal year, but before the close of the tenth calendar day of session in that session of Congress beginning after the date of issuance of such report, the majority leader of either House of Congress may introduce a joint resolution which contains provisions directing the President to modify the most recent order issued under section 902 \1\ of this title for such fiscal year. After the introduction of the first such joint resolution in either House of Congress in any calendar year, then no other joint resolution introduced in such House in such calendar year shall be subject to the procedures set forth in this section.
  (b) Procedures for consideration of joint resolutions
    (1) No referral to committee
       A joint resolution introduced in the Senate or the House of Representatives under subsection (a) of this section shall not be referred to a committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives, as the case may be, and shall be placed on the appropriate calendar pending disposition of such joint resolution in accordance with this subsection.
    (2) Immediate consideration
       On or after the third calendar day (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) beginning after a joint resolution is introduced under subsection (a) of this section, notwithstanding any rule or precedent of the Senate, including Rule 22 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) for any Member of the respective House to move to proceed to the consideration of the joint resolution, and all points of order against the joint resolution (and against consideration of the joint resolution) are waived, except for points of order under titles III or IV of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 [2 U.S.C. 631 et seq., 651 et seq.]. The motion is not in order after the eighth calendar day (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) beginning after a joint resolution (to which the motion applies) is introduced. The motion is highly privileged in the House of Representatives and is privileged in the Senate and is not debatable. The motion is not subject to amendment, or to a motion to postpone, or to a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the joint resolution is agreed to, the respective House shall immediately proceed to consideration of the joint resolution without intervening motion, order, or other business, and the joint resolution shall remain the unfinished business of the respective House until disposed of.
    (3) Debate
      (A) In the Senate, debate on a joint resolution introduced under subsection (a) of this section, amendments thereto, and all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith shall be limited to not more than 10 hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority leader and the minority leader (or their designees). In the House, general debate on a joint resolution introduced under subsection (a) of this section shall be limited to not more than 4 hours which shall be equally divided between the majority and minority leaders.
      (B) A motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business is not in order. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the joint resolution is agreed to or disagreed to is not in order. In the Senate, a motion to recommit the joint resolution is not in order. In the House, a motion further to limit debate is in order and not debatable. In the House, a motion to recommit is in order.
      (C)        (i) In the House of Representatives, an amendment and any amendment thereto is debatable for not to exceed 30 minutes to be equally divided between the proponent of the amendment and a Member opposed thereto.
        (ii) No amendment that is not germane or relevant to the provisions of the joint resolution or to the order issued under section 902(b)(1) \1\ of this title shall be in order in the Senate. In the Senate, an amendment, any amendment to an amendment, or any debatable motion or appeal is debatable for not to exceed 30 minutes to be equally divided between the majority leader and the minority leader (or their designees).
        (iii) In the Senate, an amendment that is otherwise in order shall be in order notwithstanding the fact that it amends the joint resolution in more than one place or amends language previously amended. It shall not be in order in the Senate to vote on the question of agreeing to such a joint resolution or any amendment thereto unless the figures then contained in such joint resolution or amendment are mathematically consistent.
    (4) Vote on final passage
       Immediately following the conclusion of the debate on a joint resolution introduced under subsection (a) of this section, a single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the appropriate House, and the disposition of any amendments under paragraph (3) (except for the motion to recommit in the House of Representatives), the vote on final passage of the joint resolution shall occur.
    (5) Appeals
       Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a joint resolution described in subsection (a) of this section shall be decided without debate.
    (6) Conference reports
       In the Senate, points of order under titles III and IV of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 [2 U.S.C. 631 et seq., 651 et seq.] (including points of order under sections 302(c), 303(a), 306, and 401(b)(1) [2 U.S.C. 633(c), 634(a), 637, 651(b)(1)]) are applicable to a conference report on the joint resolution or any amendments in disagreement thereto.
    (7) Resolution from other House
       If, before the passage by the Senate of a joint resolution of the Senate introduced under subsection (a) of this section, the Senate receives from the House of Representatives a joint resolution introduced under subsection (a) of this section, then the following procedures shall apply:
      (A) The joint resolution of the House of Representatives shall not be referred to a committee.
      (B) With respect to a joint resolution introduced under subsection (a) of this section in the Senate–
        (i) the procedure in the Senate shall be the same as if no joint resolution had been received from the House; but
        (ii)          (I) the vote on final passage shall be on the joint resolution of the House if it is identical to the joint resolution then pending for passage in the Senate; or
          (II) if the joint resolution from the House is not identical to the joint resolution then pending for passage in the Senate and the Senate then passes it, the Senate shall be considered to have passed the joint resolution as amended by the text of the Senate joint resolution.
      (C) Upon disposition of the joint resolution received from the House, it shall no longer be in order to consider the resolution originated in the Senate.
    (8) Senate action on House resolution
       If the Senate receives from the House of Representatives a joint resolution introduced under subsection (a) of this section after the Senate has disposed of a Senate originated resolution which is identical to the House passed joint resolution, the action of the Senate with regard to the disposition of the Senate originated joint resolution shall be deemed to be the action of the Senate with regard to the House originated joint resolution. If it is not identical to the House passed joint resolution, then the Senate shall be considered to have passed the joint resolution of the House as amended by the text of the Senate joint resolution.
