   As used in this chapter–
  (1) The term ””BBEDCA““ means the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
  (2) The definitions set forth in section 622 of this title and in section 250 of BBEDCA [2 U.S.C. 900] shall apply to this chapter, except to the extent that they are specifically modified as follows:
    (A) The term ””outyear““ means a fiscal year one or more years after the budget year.
    (B) In section 250(c)(8)(C) [2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8)(C)], the reference to the food stamp program shall be deemed to be a reference to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
  (3) The term ””AMT““ means the Alternative Minimum Tax for individuals under sections 55–59 of title 26, the term ””EGTRRA““ means the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (Public Law 107–16), and the term ””JGTRRA““ means the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief and \1\N Reconciliation Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–27).
  (4)    (A) The term ””budgetary effects““ means the amount by which PAYGO legislation changes outlays flowing from direct spending or revenues relative to the baseline and shall be determined on the basis of estimates prepared under section 933 of this title. Budgetary effects that increase outlays flowing from direct spending or decrease revenues are termed ””costs““ and budgetary effects that increase revenues or decrease outlays flowing from direct spending are termed ””savings““. Budgetary effects shall not include any costs associated with debt service.
    (B) For purposes of these definitions, off-budget effects shall not be counted as budgetary effects.
    (C) Solely for purposes of recording entries on a PAYGO scorecard, provisions in appropriation Acts are also considered to be budgetary effects for purposes of this chapter if such provisions make outyear modifications to substantive law, except that provisions for which the outlay effects net to zero over a period consisting of the current year, the budget year, and the 4 subsequent years shall not be considered budgetary effects. For purposes of this paragraph, the term, ””modifications to substantive law““ refers to changes to or restrictions on entitlement law or other mandatory spending contained in appropriations Acts, notwithstanding section 250(c)(8) of BBEDCA [2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8)]. Provisions in appropriations Acts that are neither outyear modifications to substantive law nor changes in revenues have no budgetary effects for purposes of this chapter.
  (5) The term ””debit““ refers to the net total amount, when positive, by which costs recorded on the PAYGO scorecards for a fiscal year exceed savings recorded on those scorecards for that year.
  (6) The term ””entitlement law““ refers to a section of law which provides entitlement authority.
  (7) The term ””PAYGO legislation““ or a ””PAYGO Act““ refers to a bill or joint resolution that affects direct spending or revenue relative to the baseline. The budgetary effects of changes in revenues and outyear modifications to substantive law included in appropriation Acts as defined in paragraph (4) shall be treated as if they were contained in PAYGO legislation or a PAYGO Act.
  (8) The term ””timing shift““ refers to a delay of the date on which outlays flowing from direct spending would otherwise occur from the ninth outyear to the tenth outyear or an acceleration of the date on which revenues would otherwise occur from the tenth outyear to the ninth outyear.
